"Enterprise-class centralized version control for the masses"
Welcome to subversion.apache.org, the online home of the Apache® Subversion® software project. Subversion is an open source version control system. Founded in 2000 by CollabNet, Inc., the Subversion project and software have seen incredible success over the past decade. Subversion has enjoyed and continues to enjoy widespread adoption in both the open source arena and the corporate world.
Subversion is developed as a project of the Apache Software Foundation, and as such is part of a rich community of developers and users. We're always in need of individuals with a wide range of skills, and we invite you to participate in the development of Apache Subversion. Here's how to get started.
For helpful hints about how to get the most out of your visit to this site, see the About This Site section below.
Subversion exists to be universally recognized and adopted as an open-source, centralized version control system characterized by its reliability as a safe haven for valuable data; the simplicity of its model and usage; and its ability to support the needs of a wide variety of users and projects, from individuals to large-scale enterprise operations.
We are pleased to announce the release of Apache Subversion 1.15.0-rc3. This release is not intended for production use, but is provided as a milestone to encourage wider testing and feedback from intrepid users and maintainers. Please see the release announcement for more information about this release, and the release notes and change log for information about what will eventually be in the 1.15.0 release.
To get this release from the nearest mirror, please visit our download page.
We are pleased to announce the release of Apache Subversion 1.14.5.
This release contains a fix for a security issue: CVE-2024-46901
This is the most complete Subversion release to date, and we encourage users of Subversion to upgrade as soon as reasonable. Please see the release announcement and the release notes for more information about this release.
We are pleased to announce the release of Apache Subversion 1.14.4.
This release contains a fix for a security issue: CVE-2024-45720
[Click here to see all News items.]
This website is the central source of information about Subversion and the community which gives it life. Here, you'll find resources that are useful to existing and potential Subversion users and developers alike. Want to read about Subversion's features? Need to download the latest Subversion release? Perhaps you've thought of a great enhancement and you're wondering how to share the idea with the developers? This site will help you do all that.
Who is this site not aimed at? Well, there are many third-party tools which exist as part of the greater Subversion ecosystem, but aren't part of the core project itself. Subversion clients such as TortoiseSVN, or Subversion's integrations into various IDE's such as Eclipse and NetBeans, or the pure Java implementation of Subversion called SVNKit — these are all valuable pieces of the Subversion story, but each is managed as its own project outside of the core Subversion offering. This site really isn't so much about those projects.
The sections below provide a high-level overview of how this website is organized, making reference to the navigation menu you should find on the left-hand side of each page of the website.
The "About Subversion" section of the website is Information Central. You can read the latest Subversion News, learn about Subversion's rich set of Features, and consult various sources of Documentation about Subversion and the processes that govern that interactions of the Subversion community. There's a Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) page, as well as some forward-looking material in the form of a feature Roadmap.
Learning about Subversion is great, but the real fun is in applying that knowledge. The "Getting Subversion" section of the website is all about making sure Subversion finds it way into your hands. This community releases source code archives of the various Subversion versions, which you can get via the Source Code menu. (That's also a good place to look for instructions on checking out Subversion's source code from the repository in which it lives.) But if you'd rather not deal with building Subversion yourself, there are a number of places where you can get precompiled Binary Packages of Subversion, built for various platforms.
The other sections of the website are primarily about getting — the "Community" section is where you interact and give. Here, you'll learn about the Mailing Lists where Subversion-related discussions occur and about the Issue Tracker where bugs and enhancement requests are reported. We'll tell you about the various ways you can be Getting Involved with the project.
The rest of this site is about Subversion — but Subversion doesn't operate in a vacuum. It is part of the Apache Software Foundation (ASF), which — in addition to the servers that run this site and our mailing lists — provides financial, technical, and legal backing. The "About the ASF" section contains links that relate to the the Foundation as a whole. It lists our sponsors and allows you to donate if you wish.