One of the top 10 public universities in the nation for over a decade.
Featured in: U.S. News & World Report
ART IS EVERYWHERE
At UC San Diego, creativity shapes discovery. ArtsConnect brings public art, performances, exhibitions and hands-on experiences together to spark curiosity, surprise and delight.
Find Events & Experiences
Built for Well-Being
The new Triton Health and Wellness Building makes it easier than ever for students, staff and faculty to access integrated physical health, mental health and wellness services — all in the heart of campus.
Free Speech
We affirm the right to freedom of expression at UC San Diego. Learn more about free speech and expressive activities.
NEWS
Attend UC San Diego
Your journey is unique—whether as a first-generation student, a community college transfer, an international scholar or student veteran—and we are dedicated to your success. Dive deep into our vibrant learning community taught by award-winning faculty with an ocean backdrop.
Undergraduate
UC San Diego first-year and transfer students come from all over California and throughout the world—ready for challenge and discovery
Graduate and Professional
Work alongside world-class experts—and become one. Join our thriving community of graduate and professional scholars.
Medical and Pharmacy
Invent the future of care through the education and research opportunities offered through UC San Diego’s School of Medicine and Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences.
Lifelong Learning
Looking to prepare for college, advance your career with certificate and degree-related programs, or just seeking to enrich your personal growth? We offer a range of courses and programs to help you meet your goals.
Arts at UC San Diego
Strengthening California’s Leadership in Fusion Energy
Scientists and engineers from UC San Diego and General Atomics have announced a groundbreaking collaboration to establish a Fusion Data Science and Digital Engineering Center in San Diego. The new center sets the stage for even deeper collaborations in advanced digital engineering, artificial intelligence, machine learning and high-performance computing as part of a multi-step effort to fast-track fusion energy development and bolster California’s leadership in fusion research and innovation.
FINANCIAL AID AND SCHOLARSHIPS
Whether you’re a first-year, transfer, or graduate student, the UC system has one of the most generous and progressive financial aid programs in the nation. College is within your reach.
Our Thriving 
Student Life
      There are plenty of ways to find community and have fun on campus. Watch a show at one of UC San Diego’s performance venues, participate in fitness classes, join a student organization and more.
Learn More About Student Life