University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Home
Leading the Future
Impact and Innovation at Illinois
Start your
New class to begin its journey to transform healthcare
The Carle Illinois College of Medicine welcomed the 64 new physician-innovators of the Class of 2030 with a traditional white coat ceremony.
Read more about the future healthcare leaders training at Illinois
Illinois launches a new entrepreneurship minor this fall
Open to undergraduate students across the university, the minor will develop the skills needed to lead, innovate, and adapt in a rapidly evolving global economy.
Building French connections with the community
The College of Liberal Arts & Sciences brought together local students enrolled in French dual-language immersion programs to the U. of I. campus for a day of cultural and educational fun.
Resources
Discover Illinois News
Experience Our Community
- 
        Champaign-Urbana Champaign-Urbana has been named among the top 10 college towns in the country and ranked a top city for recent graduates. Visitors and locals enjoy inspiring food, art, music, artisans, parks, markets and festivals.Experience Champaign-Urbana Show Champaign-Urbana on the map
- 
        Krannert Art Museum Discover Krannert Art Museum's diverse collection, vibrant exhibitions and engaging programs. As the second-largest fine art museum in the state, the museum features over 11,000 artworks and a strong connection between the university and its community.Visit Krannert Art Museum Show Krannert Art Museum on the map
- 
        Spurlock Museum The Spurlock Museum of World Cultures, a regional hub for global cultural and archaeological collections, offers something for everyone â performances, lectures and visits. Its nine permanent exhibits showcase historical and contemporary cultures from around the world, while special exhibitions spark unique programs and events.Visit Spurlock Museum Show Spurlock Museum on the map
- 
        Krannert Center for the Performing Arts Krannert Center for the Performing Arts, one of the nation's top university performance venues, spans seven acres with four theaters and an outdoor amphitheater. Designed by Illinois alumnus Max Abramovitz, it has been a hub for thrilling and diverse performances since 1969.Visit the Krannert Center for the Performing Arts Show Krannert Center for the Performing Arts on the map
- 
        University Library The University Library is one of the largest library collections in the country. It has approximately 30 subject libraries, area studies centers and special collections across campus and houses more than 15 million volumes and 24 million items.Learn more about the University Library Show University Library on the map
- 
        Cultural Centers University cultural houses and resource centers are open to all and provide the community with space to gather and share the experiences of a rich and diverse tapestry of cultures. The centers and houses also provide a network of programs and support services promoting individual, social, cultural and academic well-being.Explore university cultural centers