At Stanford, a spirit of optimism and possibility energizes our mission of discovery and learning. Here you’ll find a place of intellectual expansiveness, wide-ranging perspectives, and freedom to explore new lines of thinking. Alive with ideas and innovation, approaching questions with openness and curiosity, pursuing excellence in all we do – this is Stanford.
A Stanford team is testing AI-assisted approaches with the Los Angeles Superior Court to flag errors in eviction cases and connect unrepresented tenants with legal help.
Using an AI model of their own creation that writes whole genomes, a team of Stanford scientists has engineered a novel bacteria-fighting phage. A new age of antibiotics could be on the horizon.
Neuroscientists have found compelling evidence for a neural network dedicated to language in the adult human brain, with potential implications for treating language problems after stroke or brain injury.
4 min read
Aug 13, 2026
Reveal content below
Research for a Better World
Solving society’s pressing challenges requires state-of-the-art laboratories and smart people. It also takes a deep belief in the power of cross-disciplinary collaboration and the audacity to go in new directions.
Computer science Professor John McCarthy, a “founding father” of AI, established the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Laboratory on campus in 1963. It was one of the first in the world to pursue the development of AI systems.
Today, the university continues to be at the technology’s vanguard – supporting scientific inquiry, accelerating discoveries, building pathways for exciting new applications, and shaping policies that protect the public.
Massive computing power at Stanford functions as a universal accelerant – compressing research timelines, enabling simulations that would otherwise be impossible, and opening entirely new categories of scientific inquiry.
The annual report reveals a field hitting breakthrough capabilities while raising urgent questions about environmental costs, transparency, and who benefits from the technology.
The combined institute will retain the Stanford HAI name and be helmed by computer scientist James Landay.
6 min read
May 4, 2026
An infrastructure for innovation
Stanford’s campus and culture make unexpected connections, well, expected. Explore just a few of the venues where students and faculty mix deep expertise from disparate fields to come up with surprising new answers to important questions.
Education for Engaged Citizenship
Stanford prepares students to thrive and lead with principle in a complex society through open inquiry and vigorous debate.
Ideas are born and tested in both quiet reflection and noisy debate. In classrooms, dorms, and third places on campus, Stanford students learn to listen with curiosity, embrace new perspectives, and engage differing views with rigor and respect.
It’s getting hard to remember a time before polarization, self-censorship, and social-media shouting matches. But there are proven ways to make dialogue constructive, and Stanford faculty are teaching them.
Stanford meets the full financial need of every undergrad who qualifies, providing assistance to more than 70% of admitted students.
Tuition is free for undergrads with family incomes under $150,000 and typical assets. Tuition, room, and board are free for undergrads with family incomes under $100,000.
The Summer Bridge Program gives incoming undergraduate and transfer students the tools and confidence they need to succeed at Stanford through academic preparation, community building, and enhanced advising support.
Stanford’s First-Generation and/or Low-Income Student Success Center offers funding, mentorship, and more to help students thrive over the course of the undergraduate experience.
Home of Champions
Stanford’s athletics program is the most dominant in college sports. Our 36 varsity teams have won an unmatched 139 NCAA titles, and at least one in each of the past 50 years.
On the Farm, student-athletes pursue rigorous academics and elite competition, supported by resources to help them thrive. They have included 655 individual national champions and 400 Academic All-Americans.