Helping people, communities & the planet flourish
The Hewlett Foundation invests in creative thinkers and problem solvers with different perspectives, all working to build an inclusive society where everyone has a meaningful opportunity to thrive.
Learn more about our work
Making Progress Possible
We provide reliable, responsive, and strategic support to our partners, and promote constructive dialogue across difference to help forge solutions. Learn more about how our partners are making progress to benefit communities.
Our Priorities
We make grants across a number of program areas, many of which we have supported for decades, as well as limited-time initiatives focused on specific problems.
Provide students with rigorous, relevant, and innovative educational opportunities in order to foster mobility and help them contribute to the future of their communities and our country.
Address climate change globally and conserve the U.S. West to ensure people, communities, and the planet flourish.
Support meaningful artistic experiences for communities throughout the San Francisco Bay Area.
Promote gender equity and responsive governance in East and West Africa, Mexico, and the U.S. to foster inclusive societies where everyone can thrive.
Strengthen our shared national community through nonpartisan support for our governing institutions to build public trust in a durable democracy where all Americans have a meaningful opportunity to thrive.
Strengthen the capacity of Hewlett grantees, and nonprofits and philanthropy in general, to benefit people, communities, and the planet.
Identify and help spread ideas from across the ideological spectrum that will inform what comes next for capitalism in the U.S. and in democratic societies around the world.
Promote equal opportunity for all by addressing systemic inequalities across issue areas and in society.
Respond to opportunities that advance our philanthropic values, incubate new ideas, strengthen our field, and support the Bay Area.