Where challenge meets hope.
Notre Dame scholars and researchers pursue breakthroughs for a world in need.
United by our commitment to the common good, the global Notre Dame community builds bridges between the world we know and the world we desire. What would you fight for? For us, it is not just a question. It's a call to action.
- 
Community regenerationGary, Indiana, has been a song lyric, a cultural hub, a stigma, a city to rush past, but now it is poised to revitalize, thanks in part to Notre Dame's School of Architecture.
- 
Educating children in GhanaSoccer opened doors for student-athlete Daniel Boateng, so he's leveraging the sport to offer opportunities for kids in his native Ghana.
- 
Brain cancerTo better understand glioblastoma, an aggressive brain cancer, a Notre Dame researcher thought outside the box—and off planet Earth.
- 
Maternal healthThe US has the highest maternal mortality rate of developed nations. An innovative postpartum care model from Notre Dame can save mothers around the globe.
- 
Faster virus detectionAn electronic nose developed by Notre Dame researchers is helping sniff out bird flu biomarkers for faster detection and fewer sick birds.
- 
Improving hurricane forecastsResearchers at Notre Dame are improving hurricane forecast accuracy, giving officials time to evacuate and protect residents.
Addressing pressing challenges
Discovery at Notre Dame is grounded in ethical inquiry and a commitment to human flourishing. Across disciplines, our faculty and students are leading where they are needed most, working with partners around the globe to bring scholarship to bear on the world’s most urgent challenges.
Explore stories of Notre Dame’s impact:
What makes us distinctive
Academic excellence
At Notre Dame, academic rigor and ethical reflection go hand in hand—preparing students to meet complex global challenges.
Research
Our teacher-scholars and students grapple with enduring, fundamental questions about human existence and meaning, and develop effective solutions to our most urgent challenges.
Global
Notre Dame's reach spans the globe through international partnerships and cross-cultural learning.
Community
At Notre Dame, we cultivate a true sense of belonging, honoring the dignity and unique gifts of every person.
Highlighted Videos
Moments at Notre Dame
Uniquely Notre Dame
“We aspire to become the leading global Catholic research university—called to push the frontiers of human knowledge and cultivating, in the words of our mission statement, ‘a disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice, and oppression that burden the lives of so many.’”