One University. One Nebraska.
A land-grant flagship campus and academic medical center. A metropolitan campus serving our urban citizens. And a campus focused on undergraduates. Collectively, these unique institutions are known as the University of Nebraska System. Each has distinct strengths, giving our university a scope of expertise that is hard to equal.
University of Nebraska at Kearney
UNK focuses on undergraduate education— offering a hands-on, private-school feel on a major state university campus.
University of Nebraska - Lincoln
UNL is the system’s flagship—a land-grant research institution and Big Ten member that has led and innovated for over 150 years.
University of Nebraska Medical Center
UNMC is Nebraska’s only public academic health science center—creating a healthier future through education, groundbreaking research and exceptional patient care.
University of Nebraska at Omaha
UNO is a metropolitan institution, with students, alumni, and faculty who propel the economy of the largest city in Nebraska.
Nebraska College of Technical Agriculture
Located in Curtis, Nebraska, we prepare students for careers in agriculture, veterinary technology, food and other influential industries.
Learn More
Three Institutes, Immeasurable Impact.
The University of Nebraska System has invested in three interdisciplinary, University-wide institutes. Through these institutes, talented experts from our four campuses come together, finding innovative solutions to challenges that face our state, our nation, and our world.
Daugherty Water for Food Institute
The Daugherty Water for Food Global Institute is impacting lives everywhere by helping to grow more food with less water.
Buffett Early Childhood Institute
The Buffett Early Childhood Institute is a catalyst for helping Nebraska’s youngest citizens to thrive and succeed in life.
National Strategic Research Institute
One of only 15 university research centers affiliated with the Department of Defense, the NSRI provides solutions that improve national security.
Earn a University of Nebraska System Degree Online
Choose from more than 150 programs offered online. Flexible courses taught by expert faculty give Nebraskans—and others—access to a high-quality education, no matter where they are.
Meet President Gold