Together, we stand as A Force 
for Good
At Texas A&M University, we develop leaders of character who take action and create lasting impact. Through educational excellence and world-class research, we are building a brighter, safer world for the people of Texas, the nation and beyond.
Standing Together For Good
At Texas A&M University, we stand to be the best for the world. Since 1876, Aggies have answered the call to lead with character and serve with compassion — for Texas, the nation and beyond.
Our research drives solutions that matter: from disaster preparedness and agriculture to immersive technology, robotics, leadership and civics. Our students leave prepared to create anything possible — equipped with knowledge, shaped by values and committed to serving for the good of our communities.
This is what it means to be an Aggie: to stand together as a force for good.
Read Related Stories
Fast Company recognized Texas A&M’s research on a heart patch that may offer a way to help heal the heart after a heart attack. The patch uses a unique microneedle system to deliver a therapeutic molecule directly to damaged heart tissue, promoting repair and improving heart function without affecting the rest of the body.
Texas A&M Leads in University Rankings
Come Stand With Us
Texas A&M Aggies have always stood where duty required us to stand. We stand for something bigger than ourselves, and we stand stronger together.
Unlimited Academic Potential
With our wide range of academic programs, you have many options to help you fulfill your dreams for the future.
Explore Academic Programs
Research That Matters
Aggies selflessly serve others in our state, our nation and our world. You can see it in our research efforts and community enrichment programs, which focus on making a real difference by solving problems, improving lives and benefiting communities.
Exceptional Student Experience
There's nothing like the Aggie experience, from the classroom to the “other education.” We’re here to support you in your academic pursuits while providing a student experience like no other.
Affordable Education
A Texas A&M degree is a great investment that appreciates over time. If you're unsure of attending college because of costs, don't give up. Pursuing your dreams is within reach.
Why Texas A&M?
At Texas A&M, you'll receive a premier education at an affordable price. But being an Aggie is about more than your time in classrooms. It’s about becoming a member of one of the friendliest university communities. It means leading with integrity. And it involves joining some of the loudest, proudest fans in the Southeastern Conference.
12 reasons to live and learn in Aggieland
Ready to Learn More?
If you're interested in becoming an Aggie, we want to hear from you and help you explore your interests. Sign up to receive admissions details, important announcements and special event invitations, and to learn more about life as an Aggie.