Free the Software!
Free Software hosting for core toolchain and developer tools
Did you know about: builder.sourceware.org, patchwork.sourceware.org, inbox.sourceware.org, snapshots.sourceware.org and forge.sourceware.org?
News/Announcements
- May 16, 2026
- 
Sourceware @ Conservancy - Year
Three.
  - Communications, Community Events and Survey
  - Services and Forge Developments
  - Cyber Security, Policies, and Census Updates
  - Datacenter Migrations and the VM-First Transition
  - Finances and In-Kind Support
  - Next Year Plans
  - Project Leadership Committee Updates
  - Thank You!
- May 8, 2026
- Sourceware looking backward, looking forward, Lets discuss the previous year and the goals and budget for the upcoming year.
- May 1, 2026
- gcc.gnu.org and cygwin.com are accessible through ipv6 again. Apologies we forgot to reenable ipv6 for these domains after the datacenter move back in November.
- April 12, 2026
- Sourceware Open Office, Survey results and Budget priority discussion notes.
- April 9, 2026
- The results of the Sourceware Survey 2026 are in!
See the news and announcements page for other new (or formerly new) things.
Announcements, notices about downtime and temporary issues with our network are also posted to the fediverse @sourceware@fosstodon.org
Get on the free software announcements mailing list!
Occasionally asked questions:
- I can't access the ftp site. Mirrors?
- 
   There are several sites which mirror the 
   free software ftp site.  You 
   can see the full list on the free software mirrors 
   list page.
   
- What is your true name?
- 
    sourceware.org. But I am also
    called cygwin.org,
    coretoolchain.org,
    dwarfstd.org,
    elfutils.org,
    gcc.gnu.org,
    gnu.toolchain.dev,
    systemtap.org,
    and valgrind.org.
    During the dot-com boom years I was called sources.redhat.com
    and sourceware.cygnus.com.
    
- How are the projects chosen? Can I host my free software project there?
- 
    Currently, we are pleased to be able to provide a home for various
    core toolchain and development tool offerings and certain
GNU Project
packages such as
GCC, GDB, glibc,
    Binutils, and others.  However, we currently only have the capacity to
    host a limited number of projects.
   
 So, while it doesn't hurt to ask if your project can be hosted here, we do have to be selective in what we offer.
With luck, this will change soon, as we are contemplating increasing the capacity of both the sourceware.org system and the internet connection that it uses to communicate with the outside world.
- I need an account on sourceware for git/svn/cvs write access to project XYZ?
- 
   We have an XYZ Project? Cool!
   
Ok, you need write access for a project hosted on Sourceware you say? Well, first you'll need to have your request approved by the project maintainer(s). Once they give their ok, you can use our handy dandy little form and we'll process your request. This will provide you with an account on sourceware.org. If, in the future, you want to contribute to the repository of another project (remember that sourceware.org, cygwin.com and gcc.gnu.org share projects), have a responsible party send email to the admin-requests mailing list at this site requesting that you be added to the project. Do not fill this form out again.
- Do you have a privacy statement for this site?
- 
   Hey, why not.
 We're not recording anything about you, short of the normal web logs which show what pages are being downloaded by what host. We'd never use any of the mailing list subscription information for anything other than the normal distribution of e-mail to that list.
 We are not out to get you.
Oh, from time to time we do generate some aggregate reports but those don't identify you individually, so stop worrying.
- A lot of the software here is compressed in the .bz2 format. What is that?
- 
   bzip2 (".bz2 ") is a compression program similar to gzip
   (".gz "), but it produces much smaller files than gzip.  You
   can get the source for bzip2, or pre-built binaries for most platforms,
   from the bzip2 home page.
   Most recent free software distributions include bzip2, so you may already
   have it on your system.
- Is it true that the first lunar landing was faked?
- 
   Of course.  Everyone knows that.  See the PBS documentary
   about it, Capricorn One.
  
Spam harvesters lookee here! aaaspam@sourceware.org