We’re tackling the world’s toughest health challenges
        Johnson & Johnson Innovative Medicine is leading where medicine is going. Patients inform and inspire our science-based innovations, which continue to change and save lives. With rigorous science and compassion, we confidently address the most complex diseases of our time and unlock the medicines of tomorrow. Healthcare areas include: Oncology, Immunology, Neuroscience and Cardiopulmonary.
    
            
            
            
            
    
        
        Johnson & Johnson MedTech innovates at the intersection of biology and technology. With a focus on treating with pinpoint precision in the hardest-to-reach parts of the body, restoring anatomy and reimagining healing, our portfolio of smarter, less invasive, more personalized treatments is addressing the most complex health challenges. Healthcare areas include: Cardiovascular, Orthopaedics, Surgery and Vision.
    
            
            
            
            
    
        Innovating in healthcare
- 
                    
                         
                            What you need to know about Johnson & Johnson’s second-quarter 2026 earnings report Check out this infographic breakdown of the company’s second-quarter performance, with highlights from its Innovative Medicine and MedTech businesses.
- 
                    
                            “We are in a golden age of cataract surgery” Once considered a straightforward procedure to restore cloudy vision, cataract surgery has evolved into one of the most technologically advanced—and personalized—operations in modern medicine. Learn how Johnson & Johnson’s 25-year history of innovation is helping eye surgeons meet the moment.
- 
                    
                        
                            How the Polyphonic™ AI Fund for Surgery QuickFire Challenge awardees are aiming to empower surgeons Johnson & Johnson launched this competition with one goal: to accelerate the development of next-generation surgical technologies. Meet this year’s three awardees and learn about their innovations.
- 
                    
                         
                            When depression improves but patients still grapple with symptoms Only one in three people with major depressive disorder achieves remission after their first antidepressant, leaving many to continue to experience life-impacting symptoms such as disrupted sleep, changes in weight and appetite and trouble concentrating. Learn why Johnson & Johnson is working to help more patients achieve remission.
- 
                    
                        
                            What is acute myeloid leukemia? It’s the most common type of acute leukemia in adults, yet it has the lowest survival rate of all leukemias. Learn more about this difficult-to-treat blood cancer and why Johnson & Johnson is on a mission to deliver better treatment options.
Learn more about how we are innovating
5 things we now know about plaque psoriasis
        Plaque psoriasis is the most prevalent form of psoriasis, affecting millions worldwide. Johnson & Johnson is focused on developing novel therapies for chronic dermatologic diseases to address the unmet need that still exists.
    
        
    
    Moving toward a more personalized approach to treating depression
        The World Health Organization predicts that depression will be the leading cause of disability across the globe by 2030. Learn how Johnson & Johnson is on a mission to change that.
    
        
    
    “My company makes the medication that helped me fight multiple myeloma”
        Paul Reidy, a Johnson & Johnson warehouse technician in Ireland, never imagined that an oncology therapy made at the facility where he works would help save his life.
    
        
    
    “Reimagining what life with schizophrenia could look like”
        Johnson & Johnson’s Leonardo Diaz, M.D., addresses common misconceptions about schizophrenia, the critical importance of preventing relapse and why there’s so much optimism about treatments.