At “Quasi-Public” Private Schools, 100% of Students Get Tuition Vouchers. There’s Almost No Accountability.
Private schools — even those that are heavily dependent on taxpayer funding — often operate without the scrutiny public schools are subject to. Following the money at one Milwaukee private school reveals an opaque world with little oversight.
1 Month Ago: How to Research Private Schools Like an Investigative Reporter
Inside Trump’s Failed Hunt for Noncitizen Voters
To prove the president’s claims of illegal voting, the government has harnessed the power of Homeland Security Investigations, a branch of DHS established to combat the worst cross-border crime. So far, the effort has produced meager results.
4 Months Ago: Inside Trump’s Effort to “Take Over” the Midterm Elections
Wall Street’s Nonprofits Use Selective, Opaque Logic to Defund Charities
A quarter of all individual giving in the U.S. is made through donor-advised funds. A ProPublica investigation reveals how these high-stakes decisions to cut off funding often leave charities, donors and the public in the dark.
A Youth Sports Giant Promised Reforms to Protect Kids From Sexual Abuse. Most Never Happened.
More than a decade after the Amateur Athletic Union promised to implement “historic child protection measures,” it still hasn’t done so, leaving hundreds of thousands of kids at risk. Some AAU athletes have had devastating experiences.
Fiasco in the Factory: Taxpayers Funded a $533 Million Artillery Plant That Made Nothing
General Dynamics opened a Texas factory to churn out artillery shells for Ukraine, but the machines kept breaking. Robot arms smashed into things. Hunks of metal crashed to the floor. There was even a real-life dumpster fire.
How “Forgive and Forget” Buried a Church’s Dark Secret
A man was convicted of abusing girls in his church. Preachers had known about the allegations for years. Some of the abuse even reportedly took place in the pews during services. So why did they never report him to the police?
Young Girls Were Sexually Abused by a Church Member. They Were Told to Forgive and Forget.
ProPublica is a nonprofit, investigative newsroom that exposes corruption. We report in all 50 states and partner with local newsrooms. Our work spurs real-world impact and has received numerous awards, including nine Pulitzer Prizes. Read more
Browse Topics
Skip topics list
Carbon Captured
How the Fossil Fuel Industry Turned a Plan to Solve Climate Change Into a Plan to Save Itself
- 
											Carbon CapturedHow the fossil fuel industry turned the plan to solve climate change into a plan to save itself
- 
											Why Carbon Capture Can’t Conceivably Solve Climate ChangeAs global leaders look to tech advances to solve climate change, one leading idea involves capturing carbon pollution from the air and burying it underground forever. While carbon capture may sound practical, there is no conceivable way it can work.
- 
											Beyond Denial: How Oil Execs Shaped a Landmark Climate StudyBP sponsored an elite Princeton research center to address the climate problem without getting off fossil fuels. Its key work, a paper known as “Wedges,” guided climate discourse for a generation.
A Simple Shot
How False Information About Vitamin K Led to Babies’ Deaths
Vitamin K shots, given at birth to prevent uncontrollable bleeding, are not vaccines. Yet this long-standard injection has become collateral damage of the anti-vaccine movement and growing mistrust of some basic medical interventions.
Babies Are Bleeding to Death as Parents Reject a Vitamin Shot Given at Birth
The vitamin K shot, a lifesaving injection given to newborns to prevent uncontrollable bleeding of the brain and intestines, has become collateral damage of the anti-vaccine movement.
Lawmakers Call for CDC to Track Vitamin K Shot Refusals, Cite ProPublica Report
Two members of Congress are urging federal officials to monitor vitamin K shot refusals by parents and the potential consequences for their newborns, including severe bleeding or death.
Events
Clean Air Act: Dismantling One of the Country’s Bedrock Environmental Laws
Join us for a discussion about the rollback of the Clean Air Act and what it means for public health in communities across America.
Aug. 25 
4 – 5 p.m.  EDT
Virtual
Forgive and Forget
How a Church Enabled Child Sex Abusers
Instead of reporting child sexual abuse allegations to police, the Old Apostolic Lutheran Church encouraged victims to forgive their abusers and forget the abuse.
In This Church, Child Sexual Abuse Has Gone Unchecked for So Long That It Spans Generations
The Old Apostolic Lutheran Church’s culture of forgiving and forgetting sins has absolved abusers and silenced victims across the U.S. and Canada, ensnaring parents, children and grandchildren in the same cycle of abuse.
Young Girls Were Sexually Abused by a Church Member. They Were Told to Forgive and Forget.
In Minnesota, leaders of an Old Apostolic Lutheran Church community enabled a child abuser by telling his victims that once the sins were “washed away in the blood of reconciliation,” they could never speak of them again.
What a Recorded Interview Between Police and Preachers Reveals About How a Minnesota Church Handled Sexual Abuse
5 Takeaways From Our Investigation Into How Leaders of a Minnesota Church Community Enabled a Child Abuser
Impact: Lawmaker Calls for Stronger Mandatory Reporting Rules Following Our Investigation Into Church Abuse Case
Explore Our Data
Maps, Visualizations, and Databases
- 
											Nonprofit Explorer: Research Tax-Exempt OrganizationsSearch the full text of 18 million tax filing documents going back as far as 2001.
- 
											Looking at Nursing Homes? See Which Ones Have Been Cited for Deficiencies
- 
											Explore Financial Disclosures From President Trump and 1,600 of His Appointees
- 
											Look Up Where Your Generic Prescription Drugs Were Made
- 
											Tracking Habeas Cases