University of Mississippi — Ole Miss. Uncover boundless opportunities at the University of Mississippi – a time-honored institution where academic excellence, vibrant campus life, and a rich tradition of success are a way of life. Start your future at Ole Miss today.
This is HOTTY TODDY
No matter what you want to do or where you want to go, the University of Mississippi can make it happen.
Live the Moment
Our vibrant student community revolves around a vast array of extracurricular activites.
In the Field
We conduct research that improves lives in Mississippi and far beyond.
On the Field
Ole Miss is the place for sports. We compete at the highest level of college athletics and are winning championships.
Economic Development
Get a head start on your career — we'll connect you with internships that will give you a professional advantage.
Job Advancement
Our intellectually challenging degree programs will help you advance your career — now that's how it should be.
In the Grove
Experience the premier tailgating spot in college football — Every fall, Ole Miss shows why the Grove is the envy of the nation. Fans descend on Oxford to support their Rebels and enjoy a weekend of fun and football.
Around Oxford
From the thriving food and arts scene to the idyllic town square, come and see why ESPN called Oxford “America’s Best College Town.”
Getting It Done
At the University of Mississippi, we’re transforming lives every day — by championing discovery, cultivating opportunity, and engaging positively with the world around us.
Academics and Programs
Undergraduate and First Year Students
We've got more than 90 majors to choose from on your way to a bachelor's degree. Undecided? Let our Freshman Studies program guide your way.
Graduate Students
Harness the opportunity of an R1 research institution to work with expert faculty — in the classroom, lab, field, or wherever your questions take you.
Competitive Programs for Undergraduates
Want to tailor your degree to your interests? Or ready to finish what you started? We've got programs that put you in control of your undergraduate experience. Supplemental application due January 10, 2025.
Get Involved
There's a lot happening on the Ole Miss campus. Whether you're looking to make a difference or have some fun, there's so many ways to stay engaged.
Are You Ready?
Find Your Info
Got a Question? Ask Away!
If you're interested in joining us at the University of Mississippi, then we can't wait to meet you. We've got students from all corners of campus ready to say hello and answer your questions.
Did You Know?
student organizations
share of Ole Miss grads working 10 years after graduation (Source: Zippia)
Our Impact
OXFORD, Miss. – The University of Mississippi Division of Student Affairs has completed the three-year Hazing Prevention Consortium program, designed to benefit students across campus. Ole Miss is the only Mississippi university and among only a handful in the SEC to do so.
- 
                        Community / Hotty Toddy
- 
                        Alumni News / Hotty Toddy
- 
                        Hotty Toddy
                        Welcome to
                        Oxford, Mississippi
                    
                    Looking for arts and culture? Seeking the charm of a classic college town? We've got it all right here.