What if AI could do an engineer’s most tedious work?
We’ve launched the Eigen Engineering Agent, purpose-built AI for industrial automation engineering. It moves AI beyond generating suggestions to executing engineering tasks end-to-end. Now available for more than 600,000 TIA Portal users.
Together with NVIDIA, we are building the Industrial AI operating system for the physical world. Read the latest news from our ever-expanding partnership here.
The next generation of locomotives for freight and passenger transport combines the proven platform technology with app-based functionalities, open interfaces for third-party providers, in an open ecosystem – connecting people, places and portfolios more closely than ever before.
At the University of Wollongong, a digital twin brings together data from 1,000 assets, 500 BMS points, energy meters and documents, to create a single source of truth and enable efficient, data-driven operations acrossthe campus.
Deep in the Amazon, a cooperative partnered with Natura to extract essential oils from native plants. We brought a digital twin to their extraction process, cutting energy and water use while boosting income for the local community by 60%.
The challenges of tomorrow demand an upgrade today. We power your ideas with artificial intelligence, simulation and smart technologies, moving you from digital blueprint to real-world impact.
Explore a wide range of modular and interoperable products, services and solutions to scale your business’s innovation and fuel your digital transformation.
The Building X platform helps you manage and optimize building operations—from energy use and tenant comfort to maintenance, security, safety and more.
Electrification X combines the real and digital worlds in the Xcelerator Internet of Things (IoT) software as a service (SaaS) offering for electrification and automation to tackle the challenges of energy transition.
Create, edit and evaluate finite element models of complex products and systems using advanced computer-aided engineering (CAE) pre- and postprocessors to model components, assemblies or systems.
Achieve end-to-end traceability with our powerful serialization software, automating serial number management and streamlining your manufacturing processes to ensure compliance and build a robust supply chain.
NX software helps designers and manufacturers deliver better products faster using powerful, integrated computer-aided design (CAD) and computer-aided manufacturing (CAM) solutions that realize the full value of the digital twin.
Explore today's headlines, major partnerships and transformative breakthroughs. This is your front-row seat to the technology and expert insights that are actively engineering a more sustainable and intelligent future.