Patents
Protect your ideas, inventions, and technological breakthroughs. From utility, design, and plant patents, we guide you through every step of the application process.
Trademarks
Protect your brand. Registering your trademark lets the public know it's federally protected and gives you the tools to defend it. We'll guide you through the process.
What type of intellectual property do you have?
 Take our quick assessment to see whether your ideas may qualify for intellectual property protection and find out how to protect them.
Search
 Before you apply, search our databases to make sure your invention or brand can be federally protected.
Patent Search
Before filing, use our Patent Public Search tool to identify similar patents and published applications already in use.
Trademark Search
Before filing, search our trademark database to find similar trademarks that could affect your chances of registration.
Ready to apply?
  Apply for a patent 
Submit your patent application online with our step-by-step guidance. Protect your inventions and innovations.
 Apply to register a trademark 
File your trademark application online with our step-by-step process to federally protect your brand.
 Create a USPTO.gov account 
Setting up a USPTO.gov account gives you access to file patent and trademark applications, track your submissions, and manage your intellectual property all in one secure place.
Application Status
Check the status of your patent application or trademark registration.
Beware of scams
 Learn how to spot them and protect your intellectual property.
Learning and resources
  Access our free services 
Find free USPTO guidance, education and support services.
 Intellectual property basic toolkits 
Explore beginner-friendly IP toolkits covering patents, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets.
 Training and events 
Join USPTO webinars, workshops, and events to learn about patents, trademarks, and other IP topics.
 USPTO locations 
Find USPTO office locations and Patent and Trademark Resource Centers for in-person IP support.
The latest at the USPTO
 USPTO Hour
Initiatives
The USPTO released its latest report highlighting the profound economic contributions of industries that predominantly rely on intellectual property (IP) protection, including patents, trademarks, and copyrights.
The USPTO, America's Innovation Agency, held a ceremonial patent and trademark signing to commemorate America’s 250 celebration.
As part of our efforts to improve and enhance the digital experience for USPTO.gov visitors, America's Innovation Agency, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, has unveiled a modernized homepage design to make it easier to find valuable information and resources.
The U.S Patent and Trademark Office has marked a historic first after signing a statement of intent for a new Accelerated Patent Grant arrangement between the USPTO and Ghana’s IP office, the Registrar General’s Department, Ministry of Justice.
Regionally specialized innovation ecosystem partnerships to serve as nodes of university research excellence and engagement with Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority-Serving Institutions.