New research More than words: the real-life impact of reading Discover how reading can help children to learn about emotions, understand why people behave the way they do, and navigate real-life situations. Read the report Latest Thinking Explore our latest thinking across a wide variety of subjects and knowledge from all over the world. Discover more AI Education OUP hosts AI in Education at Oxford University summer school gathering 7 August 2026 2 min read Education National Year of Reading Reading the game: how children’s interests can unlock their enthusiasm for reading 5 August 2026 4 min read Academic Language and Literacy Games, books, and quiz shows: supporting integrated dictionary experiences 27 July 2026 4 min read Academic AI Education Helping law students to study smarter with AI 24 July 2026 2 min read Academic Assessment Education Sustainability Celebrating highlights in literacy, digital learning and assessment, and research publishing 23 July 2026 2 min read Education Language and Literacy National Year of Reading More than words: the real-life impact of reading 16 July 2026 25 min read Explore our Portfolio Take a look at these highlights from Oxford, chosen for you from across our publishing. Education English Language Academic Explore our Portfolio Take a look at these highlights from Oxford, chosen for you from across our publishing. Education English Language Academic Explore our Portfolio Take a look at these highlights from Oxford, chosen for you from across our publishing. Education English Language Academic The Diary of Wiska Wildflower: The New School From the creator of Isadora Moon, Harriet Muncaster, this brand new series welcomes readers to the enchanting world of the wisklings. Discover more English File fifth edition Our ready-to-go English course, proven to engage and motivate students to learn and get them talking. Discover more Oxford Law Pro Bringing together thousands of experts to give you easy access to the knowledge that will drive your thinking into the future. Discover more Word of the Day You’ve found Oxford’s Word of the Day! Come back soon to learn something new. August 17, 2026 peat-reek (n.) Scottish. Highland whisky, esp. that (illicitly) distilled over a peat fire and supposedly flavoured with peat-smoke. Popular Resources Free resources for you to explore and share. New report Navigating AI in Education Read about pupils’ perspectives on the role of AI in the classroom. Find out more Journal insights Publishing tips Explore our blog posts, free articles, and chapters to learn more about the academic publishing process. Read our tips Podcast Talking ELT Special In this special episode, our experts unpack why English language testing is at a crossroads. Watch now