|  | Hosted by | 
| Tcl Conference News The 2026 OpenACS and Tcl/Tk conference will be held in Vienna on July 16 & 17 2026. Please visit the main conference page for details. Latest Software Releases    Tcl/Tk 9.1b0 Source Tcl/Tk 9.0.4 Source Tcl/Tk 8.6.18 Source All Tcl/Tk Downloads   BAWT Multi-platform Magicsplat Windows IronTcl Windows   Tklib 0.8 Jul 6, 2024 Tcllib 2.0 Sep 26, 2024  Welcome to the Tcl Developer Xchange!  Join the many thousands of software developers who are already more productive with help from the  Tcl programming language and the  Tk graphical user interface toolkit.  Tcl (Tool Command Language) is a very powerful but easy to learn dynamic programming language, suitable for a very wide range of uses, including web and desktop applications, networking, administration, testing and many more. Open source and business-friendly, Tcl is a mature yet evolving language that is truly cross platform, easily deployed and highly extensible. Tk is a graphical user interface toolkit that takes developing desktop applications to a higher level than conventional approaches. Tk is the standard GUI not only for Tcl, but for many other dynamic languages, and can produce rich, native applications that run unchanged across Windows, Mac OS X, Linux and more. Get Tcl/Tk (9.0) (9.1 beta) (8.6 legacy) Browse the Tcler's Wiki Read the reference pages and other documentation | 
| Core Development A wide variety of developers contribute to the open source Tcl and Tk core, which is hosted at core.tcl-lang.org. The Tcl Core Team (TCT) helps steer this development through mechanisms like Tcl Improvement Proposals (TIP's) and the core mailing list. Read More about how the Tcl/Tk core is developed, and how you can help. | Tcl/Tk Community The Tcl user community provides a variety of support resources to help working with Tcl/Tk. Among others, the Tcler's Wiki provides a constantly updated set of tips and tricks, while comp.lang.tcl remains the best forum for Tcl/Tk discussions. Beyond that we also have IRC and Slack channels. For news and happenings, follow the feeds on Mastodon or X. Read More about these and other useful community resources. |