Quadruple Your Impact for the Hearts You Love
- 
 
                        CPR, AED or First Aid TrainingBe prepared: Learn CPR, AED, and First Aid skills that can save a life.
- 
 
                        Support Network CommunityJoin our online support community of patients, survivors and caregivers.
- 
 
                        Professional MembershipBuild your professional career and start making an impact today.
- 
 
                        Volunteer OpportunitiesHelp us create a healthier world free of heart disease and stroke.
How we are changing the future of health together
Our high blood pressure quality care initiative ensures lifesaving care for people at risk for heart disease.
The American Heart Association is the largest non-profit, non-governmental funder of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular research.
9 out of 10 people who have a cardiac arrest outside of the hospital die. If performed immediately, CPR can double or triple a person's chances of survival.
Healthy living doesn’t have to be complicated
Get expert-backed tips, recipes and inspiration delivered to your inbox twice a month in our healthy living newsletter. Discover simple ways to build habits that last, so you can live a longer, healthier life.
How much coffee is safe to drink a day?
A perk for coffee lovers: The latest research suggests that drinking up to five regular cups of caffeinated coffee per day may be safe for most adults. Just skip the cream and sugar, which may reduce potential benefits.
Heart attack vs sudden cardiac arrest
Think heart attack and sudden cardiac arrest are the same? They're not. A heart attack is a circulation problem, while sudden cardiac arrest is an electrical problem. Both are medical emergencies that require fast action.
Join your community at Heart Walk
Heart Walk brings communities together to create health and hope for every heartbeat. Every walker and every dollar raised helps fund lifesaving research, expand CPR education and support healthier lives for everyone, everywhere.
News and Stories
Join us in saving lives
Get updates on groundbreaking research, inspiring survivor stories, and ways you can help save lives—all delivered to your inbox.