The prestigious medal is awarded every four years by the International Mathematical Union to researchers under 40 years old for “outstanding mathematical achievement” and future promise.
Join the more than 10,000 Princeton alumni, students, faculty, staff and friends who are Standing Up for Princeton and American higher education. You’ll receive a periodic newsletter with information and suggestions on how you can help.
Princeton faculty members are all exceptional scholars in their disciplines who are expected to teach as well as engage in research. Faculty work closely with undergraduates in the supervision of junior year independent work and senior theses.
Li received the 2026 Pulitzer Prize for her memoir “Things in Nature Merely Grow” and has won numerous awards for her novels and short story collections. She teaches creative writing at Princeton.
Martonosi’s research on computer architecture and hardware design has fueled broad and lasting improvements in the performance, energy efficiency and security of computer systems, from mobile phones to data centers.
A towering figure in the scholarship of the modern African novel and postcolonial literature, Gikandi brings a global perspective to the humanities. He is the founding director of the Princeton African Humanities Colloquium.
Stone's fluid dynamics research connects engineering to chemistry, physics, and biology, with subjects including microdevices, swimming bacteria, flows of polymeric materials and respiratory virus transmission.
Okeke-Agulu is a celebrated artist, critic, curator and historian of African and African Diaspora art. He is director of Princeton’s Africa World Initiative.
Psychology, Computer Science, Princeton Lab for AI
Griffiths’ research explores how studying AI can help us understand human cognition, and vice versa. His new book, “The Laws of Thought,” tells the story of using mathematics to explain how we think.
An innovative scholar of visual culture and a founder of Black European Studies, Campt explores the tactile and sonic registers of images and contemporary art. She fosters collaborative creative expression as director of Princeton Atelier.
Ramaswami, who also leads the M.S. Chadha Center for Global India, pioneered the science of sustainable urban infrastructure systems and its translation to policy-making.
Fuentes studies the behavior, biology, and cultures of humans, our evolutionary ancestors, and other species we interact with, offering integrative insights that counter more simplistic narratives of the human experience.
Princeton brings together undergraduate and graduate students from all backgrounds, and every corner of the earth, to share their experiences and perspectives with one another.Make your mark as part of our vibrant community.