Our research improves lives
UC Berkeley researchers work every day to make discoveries that change the world. Whether advancing cures for Alzheimer’s, trailblazing the future of AI, or mapping the edges of the universe, our breakthroughs propel humanity forward. Here’s how.
Research with results
The world’s most complex problems find groundbreaking solutions here at UC Berkeley.
Global expertise
From energy and climate change to healthcare and AI, learn more about our experts’ work.
157 years of excellence
12 Nobel laureates on faculty. The #1 public research university. Here’s where we stand.
According to U.S. News & World Report, Times Higher Education, the Wall Street Journal, Forbes and more.
According to U.S. News & World Report.
Created from UC Berkeley research and patents, including malaria and cancer treatments, robotic legs, gene editing, search engines and more.
Academics
UC Berkeley boasts over 300 degree programs across our 15 schools and colleges. With cutting-edge research and scholarship led by some of the world’s greatest minds, the possibilities for our students are endless.
Undergraduate programs
Over 115 undergraduate degree programs offer a vast array of academic paths to explore.
Graduate programs
Our masters, professional and doctoral programs are consistently ranked among the best in the world.
Admissions and financial aid
Ready to start your journey? Discover how you can join the Golden Bear family below.
Undergraduate admissions
Learn more about undergraduate admissions, including deadlines, student profiles, academics, and what it means to Be Berkeley.
Graduate admissions
Explore graduate programs, research opportunities, career support, and ways to fund your education through our Graduate Division.
Financial aid
Our Financial Aid and Scholarships Office offers step-by-step guidance through the application process — find grants, explore scholarships, and estimate your aid.
Student life
Life at Berkeley blends discovery with contemplation, the scientific with the artistic and the scholarly with the athletic. Our students hail from different cultures and backgrounds, but together they create a vibrant community committed to building a better world.
Find your place
With multiple housing options and dining that’s delicious and sustainable, there are many ways to feel at home at UC Berkeley.
Join the lair
Catch a game and cheer on the Golden Bears, with 30 sports, 105 national titles and endless pride in every game.
Get involved
Whether you’re catching a show, attending a lecture or wandering the redwoods, there’s always something happening at UC Berkeley.