Two centuries ago, our founders had a vision: to open higher education to all. Today, we are a world top-ten university in the heart of London, with a thriving community from over 150 countries.
Our team of expert wellbeing, disability and mental health staff provide a safe, confidential and non-judgemental space to discuss any issues that may affect your ability to study.
UCL Professor visits former student and Prime Minister on A Level Results day
Professor John Mullan surprised Andy Burnham during a visit to Downing Street, before the two reminisced about his university experience, and discussed education and training pathways.
Replacing 15 minutes of sleep or sedentary behaviour with 15 minutes of movement are each linked to a two per cent reduced risk of cancer, new UCL research has found.
Exhibition examines origins of Coventry Cathedral’s architectural modernism
A new exhibition offering a fascinating insight into how the now-iconic design of Coventry Cathedral came about after it was bombed in the Second World War has been curated by a UCL researcher.
UCL ranked joint 8th best university in QS world rankings 2027
UCL has risen to joint eighth place in the QS World University Rankings, reaffirming our position as one of the world’s leading universities and highlighting our global impact and continuing excellence.
Novel treatment for motor neurone disease to be trialled in humans
A pioneering experimental treatment for motor neurone disease (MND), developed by UCL spinout Trace Neuroscience, will be trialled in humans as part of a new international clinical programme.
Solar windows could harvest energy from sun and indoor light
Semi-transparent solar cells that could be added to windows to efficiently harvest energy from indoor light as well as the sun have been developed by an international team led by UCL researchers.
CAR T-cell therapy shows early promise in severe lupus
Early results from a UCL and UCLH-led clinical trial suggest that a type of CAR T-cell therapy - developed by Autolus Therapeutics, a UCL spinout - could offer a new treatment approach for people with severe, treatment-resistant lupus.
In 1826, UCL was founded as London’s very first university. On 11th February, we marked our 200th anniversary and the beginning of a year of celebration. Join in our events and activities!
Professor Ibrahim Abubakar announced as new CEO of global pandemic body
Professor Ibrahim Abubakar, UCL’s Vice-Provost (Health), will become the new CEO of CEPI, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, the leading global partnership for pandemic preparedness.
Professor Jacqui Glass, Dean of the UCL Bartlett Faculty of the Built Environment and a leading expert in construction and the built environment, has been appointed interim Vice-Provost (Faculties) at UCL.