Explore 300+ programs at the UO, where big ideas thrive. Find resources to support your academic journey so you can push boundaries, fuel passions, and prepare for an impactful career.
Thanks to human physiology internships, these ducks are getting hands-on lessons in medicine and helping UO athletes soar.
UO Scientist Joins Nobel Winner to Explore Molecular Sponges
Researchers team up to study particles that can harvest water from air.
As a top-tier public research university, the UO teaches students to think critically and act creatively with programs that shape the future.
Explore 300+ programs at the UO, where big ideas thrive. Find resources to support your academic journey so you can push boundaries, fuel passions, and prepare for an impactful career.
Ready to become a Duck? Explore campus, housing, and our tuition guarantee. Learn how to apply to join the flock.
The UO’s sports legacy runs deep—from iconic Hayward Field to Nike’s global reach—fueling pride, progress, and our winning spirit.
From ocean depths to human performance, UO students and faculty team up to tackle big challenges and create real-world change.
Your go-to hub for navigating the UO—register for classes, manage finances, and get support for academics, tech, and more.
Homepage 2025
<
Where Bold Ideas Become Breakthroughs
Big ideas start here—like the roots of Nike, new ways to train the body and mind, and research that protects our planet.
We’re not afraid to push boundaries and break rules to solve the world’s most complex challenges.
Preparing for Wildfire Season
See how UO researchers are working to mitigate, prevent, and better understand wildfires while helping communities prepare for and recover from the smoke and hazards of fire season.
UO researchers built a new AI tool to analyze canary songs—a behavior that neuroscientists use to study speech and language in the brain—saving hundreds of hours of manual work.
A new state law allows bachelor’s-level behavioral health providers to become licensed practitioners in Oregon, increasing youth mental health services and paths for Ballmer Institute graduates.
Student entrepreneurs get connected at the Oregon Innovation Challenge, a 12-week, donor-funded program that provides mentorship and funding opportunities for Ducks to turn ideas into businesses.
UO physiologists find that histamine, the molecule that triggers allergies, has fitness benefits, suggesting that antihistamines could interfere with exercise performance.
Soaking in a hot tub lowers blood pressure and boosts the immune system more effectively than dry heat or far-infrared saunas, according to a UO study on heat therapy.
A UO marine biologist can estimate the size of Oregon’s commercial harvest of Dungeness crab years in advance using a simple trap to catch and count baby crabs.