The Work of Our Moment
We’re building a world where everyone has the power to shape their lives.
Immigrant Talent Powers the American Economy
Immigrants carry out thousands of essential services daily that keep the American economy running. That’s why over 1,700 business leaders have come together as part of the American Business Immigration Coalition to support pathways for a thriving immigrant workforce.
Visible and Invisible Solidarity: Farida Bemba Nabourema and Tania Pariona Tarqui on Women’s Courage and Belonging
Ford Global Fellows Farida Nabourema and Tania Pariona Tarqui discuss how they have fought discrimination, built supportive networks of women, and guided the next generation of leaders.
Reflections on Democracy: Of, By, and For the People
Democracy is a living project of constant renewal. Explore Reflections on Democracy, a new collection from leading thinkers mapping the path for democratic renewal. Read President Heather Gerken’s featured piece on the unfinished work of building a democracy for all.
Ford Foundation Adds $60 Million in New Funding to Strengthen Democracy
Ford Foundation announced additional grants to nonpartisan, nonprofit organizations protecting and advancing democracy and the rule of law in the United States.
We are advancing equality
We believe in the inherent dignity of all people and that inequality is the defining challenge of our time.
We invest in transformative ideas, individuals and institutions
We’re reimagining philanthropy to catalyze leaders and organizations driving social justice and building movements across the globe.
Our Priorities
We believe inequality is at the root of nearly every injustice. To create meaningful, lasting change, we focus on nine interconnected areas.
Special Features
Extraordinary stories of change, hope, and resilience from our community.
Building on over 90 years of impact
We have supported the work of some of history’s greatest minds, helped build pivotal institutions and seeded big ideas that have fueled groundbreaking movements.
Visit Us
Our building—including our garden and gallery—is open to the public.
Center for Social Justice
The Ford Foundation is located in New York City at the Center for Social Justice—a hub for social good and the courageous people who devote their lives to achieving it.
Gallery
In this space, we shine a light on artwork that wrestles with difficult questions, calls out injustice, and points the way toward a more fair and just future.