UNESCO promotes solutions for climate challenges during COP17
Prepare the world for AI, 
 Prepare AI for the world
Today, in an era shaped by Artificial Intelligence (AI) and related breakthrough innovations, UNESCO continues the critical work of ensuring these emerging technologies are developed and deployed in service of equity, opportunity, and inclusivity, for the people.
Coordinated by UNESCO and the ITU as the joint UN Secretariat, the UN Global Dialogue on AI Governance (6–7 July)—mandated by the General Assembly—aims to ensure that AI governance reflects the priorities of all nations, not just the most technologically advanced.
World Heritage Committee Gathers to Protect Humanity's Legacy
From 19 to 29 July 2026, the Republic of Korea hosts the 48th session of UNESCO's World Heritage Committee in Busan. Members of the 21-member World Heritage Committee, elected from among the 196 countries, exercise a central responsibility under the World Heritage Convention by determining which new sites to inscribe to the World Heritage List and monitoring the conservation of already listed sites.
Heritage and innovation make Beijing World Capital of Architecture 2029
The capital of the People's Republic of China has been designated as the UNESCO–UIA (International Union of Architects) World Capital of Architecture 2029 by the Director-General of UNESCO, Khaled El-Enany.
The designation was made upon the recommendation of the Joint Committee for the World Capital of Architecture, chaired by the distinguished architect, Dominique Perrault.
Transforming Education Summit +4: UNESCO brings together education leaders to respond to the global education crisis
Marking an important milestone in accelerating progress towards SDG 4 and shaping the post-2030 education agenda, the Transforming Education Summit +4 will bring together President Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa, United Nations Deputy Secretary-General Amina J. Mohammed, more than 30 ministers of education, Grammy-nominated recording artist and songwriter Audrey Nuna, youth, and representatives from UN agencies and international/regional development partners and financial institutions, civil society, academia and the private sector.
Delivering for people in crisis
Culture, education, science, and information are essential needs in times of turbulence and crisis. They are powerful drivers of social cohesion, resilience, and hope in a better future.
UNESCO plays a vital role in safeguarding the social and cultural foundations that underpin stability, dignity, and recovery for communities affected by crises. By protecting these pillars, we help ensure that societies can rebuild not only infrastructure, but also trust, identity, and the collective capacity to move forward.
Our impact in communities
UNESCO in brief
UNESCO is the United Nations organization that promotes cooperation in education, science, culture and communication to foster peace worldwide.
The Organization provides key services for its Member States, setting global norms and standards, developing tools for international cooperation, producing knowledge for public policies and building global networks of sites and institutions inscribed on its lists.
UNESCO lists and designations
Magazine: The UNESCO Courier
Is journalism old news?
At a time when anyone can publish and share content, an abundance of information guarantees neither its quality nor its accuracy.
While digital platforms amplify access to the public arena as well as to information, they can also undermine the conditions for independent journalism.
In this disrupted landscape, a critical question arises: how can we preserve journalism that is based on verified facts, sound judgment, and the public interest?