We’ve learned in our 85 years that in the fight to end diabetes, everything matters. So this month, we’re recognizing all those getting up alongside us and staying in the fight to end diabetes.
Stay on top of what's new at the American Diabetes Association, diabetes-related updates, healthy living resources, and more!
1 in 6 Americans ration insulin due to cost. Support the Insulin Act, critical, bipartisan legislation that will make insulin more affordable and accessible for millions.
Understanding your risk and taking early action are key steps for diabetes prevention. Explore expert-backed tools and programs to help you lower your risk for type 2 diabetes.
Save the date for the 2027 Scientific Sessions of the American Diabetes Association® (ADA) in Washington, D.C., June 18–21, 2027 at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center.
Explore breakthroughs in CGM, AI, and diabetes devices at the 2026 Diabetes Technology Meeting (DTM) in Washington, DC. 
Explore our camp experiences designed to build confidence, independence, and connection—while creating friendships and memories that last a lifetime.
Ask the Experts helps people living with diabetes tackle commonly faced issues by providing a community where you can put your questions to our diabetes experts on a variety of topics.
More than 50 percent of new cases of diabetes every year are linked to obesity. 
 
A podcast for people with diabetes and their caregivers, listen in for practical advice on overcoming everyday challenges of living with diabetes.
The numbers are staggering. Diabetes isn't just a disease—it's an epidemic, affecting over 40 million Americans with devastating consequences.
Americans are diagnosed each year
of Americans had diabetes in 2023
American adults are living with prediabetes
But there's hope. Join us as we continue the fight to end diabetes and work to find a cure.
Learn how Alexandra Park manages her type 1 diabetes while busy as an actress, writer, and producer!
Whether you're newly diagnosed, have been living with type 1 for years, or are helping out a loved one, the path to understanding diabetes starts here.
Find the tools, tips, and insights you need to take action and live life to the fullest—from understanding your prescriptions to starting a new exercise regimen.
Eating right is a powerful tool in the management of your diabetes. But it doesn't have to be boring—it's all about finding a delicious balance.
When it comes to diabetes, you don't have to do this alone. Learn your rights and get help with the resources and assistance programs you need to navigate a diagnosis.
Every purchase helps provide critical funding for diabetes research, advocacy, education, and community programs.
Over 133 million Americans are living with diabetes or prediabetes. Take action and fight back today.
Make a difference your way through a variety of options, such as fundraising, donations, or corporate giving.
We’re fighting for your right to affordable medication, better healthcare, workers’ rights, and so much more.