The University of Warwick
No items to show
Who will you become?
Who will you become?
Prepare for unlimited possibilities. We’ll give you the skills, knowledge and mindset to excel and venture further. Explore what inspires and excites you.
Founded in 1965, the University of Warwick is the youngest member of the Russell Group and renowned for seeking out and addressing complex global challenges with era-defining innovative thinking. A connected ecosystem of staff, students and alumni, the University fosters transformative learning, interdisciplinary collaboration and bold industry partnerships across state-of-the-art facilities in the UK and global satellite hubs.
Here, spirited thinkers push boundaries, experiment, and challenge convention to create a better world.
This is University of Warwick.
This is Beyond.
Search for a course
Clearing 2026
Explore our Clearing website for the latest updates, guidance and information about our Clearing Hotline. Our team is here to support you and help you make the best possible decision about your future.
Welcome to Warwick
Congratulations on your results. We look forward to welcoming you to campus this September.
A community like no other
As we celebrate 60 years, our alumni community still calls Warwick home. Welcome to a community of diverse, vibrant, incredible people that make an impact on the world around us.
Set the Pace
With your support, we will raise £250 million and generate 20,000 acts of volunteering. We'll spark breakthroughs, reimagine research, and empower more voices to be heard.
Why Warwick?
92%
Of our research has been assessed to be 'world leading' or 'internationally excellent' in the Research Excellence Framework
(REF 2021Link opens in a new window)
68th
Warwick is ranked 68th in the world and top 10 in all major UK league tables
(QS World University Rankings 2027Link opens in a new window, see our Reputation page for details)
4th
in the UK by the UK's top 100 graduate employers
(The Graduate Market in 2026, High Fliers Research Ltd.Link opens in a new window)
Excellence at Warwick
We’re proud to be a world-leading university where bold ideas and curiosity drive real-world impact. Explore our academic excellence , or discover our partnerships in action .
Research news
Explore research news at Warwick and sign up to our research newsletter, illuminate, to discover how our research is driving real-world change.
University of Warwick rises into UK top five in Daily Mail University Guide 2027
Warwick climbs one place to fifth in the Daily Mail University Guide 2027, cementing its position among the country's top universities and placing it as the highest ranked university in the Midlands.
More news
Research finds that global media distorts coverage of climate disasters
A major international study has found that global news coverage systematically overlooks many of the disasters most closely linked to climate change, while dramatic events such as earthquakes dominate headlines.
Warwick celebrates recognition in the National Teaching Fellowship Scheme 2026
Dr Bo Kelestyn and Professor Rebecca Freeman have been recognised among the National Teaching Fellowship Scheme (NTFS) 2026 winners, celebrating their outstanding impact on student learning, teaching and the wider higher education sector.
Warwick researchers power AI-driven pest monitoring for UK vegetable growers
Researchers at the University of Warwick are helping to develop an artificial intelligence-powered pest monitoring system that enables UK vegetable growers to detect damaging insect pests earlier.