Latest news
Independence with Impact Report
Our latest report shows how our independence enables long-term investment in the people, ideas, and partnerships that matter most to the education and research communities we serve.
                    Read the Report
            Register for the 2026 Critical Thinking Bootcamp
Registration is now open for the 7th-annual Sage Critical Thinking Bootcamp, providing academic librarians and professors with the tools they need to encourage critical thinking in and out of the classroom.
                    Register Now
            Empowering Social and Behavioral Science Researchers: A webinar
This webinar explored the findings of a recent Sage report showing the disconnect between researchers’ desires to make real-world impact and the incentive structures of their institutions.
                    Watch the Recording
            Quick links
Our story
In 1965, believing that research and education are pivotal in bettering society, a 24-year-old Sara Miller McCune founded Sage to bring that vision to life. Sage today is controlled by a group of trustees charged with maintaining our independence and mission indefinitely. Visit our timeline page to see how Sage has been building bridges to knowledge for 60 years.  
                    About Sage
            Explore subject disciplines
Careers with Sage
Work with a diverse group of people who share a passion for empowering researchers, educators, and institutions to shape the future.
                    Browse Open Roles
            Our initiatives
Our communities
Engage with us via our community websites, interviews with researchers, social and behavioral science news, views from the academic community, newsletters, and more
                Diversity, equity, & inclusion
As an independent company with a mission of building bridges to knowledge, we are committed to belonging for all and apply inclusive principles to our publication program and to how we operate. 
                Academic freedom
Sage believes free expression in all forms is a basic human right. Our primary responsibility, and most impactful contribution, is to publish and amplify the unique voices of scholars and educators, representing diverse populations and perspectives and developing new strands of enquiry.