New versions of libbluray (1.5.0) and libaacs (0.12.0) are out.
libbluray now exposes HDR10+, Dolby Vision, dynamic range and colour space information as well as chapter names, and brings numerous BD-J improvements, including interactive HAVI components and faster startup. libaacs improves error handling and resilience, and fixes several issues.
New releases of libdvdcss (1.6.0) and libdvdread (7.1) have been published today.
The biggest features of those releases are related to recordable DVD media (DVD-VR), including CPRM decryption, continuing the DVD-Audio work of the previous releases, along with improved portability and hardened parsing.
A new minor release of dav1d, our AV1 decoder, is out today, focused on optimizations and maintenance.
The highlight of this release is RISC-V: the newly optimized functions are between 2.5x and 12x faster than the C code, making decoding at least twice as fast overall on current RISC-V hardware. This release also brings further AArch64 and ARM32 optimizations, support for the Armv9.3-A Guarded Control Stack, an improved threading model and better portability, notably to OS/2.
As usual, the source can be found on our GitLab and on our mirrors.
We are pleased to announce dav2d, a small, fast and portable decoder for the new AV2 codec, the successor to AV1 and the latest royalty-free video codec from the Alliance for Open Media.
dav2d is the continuation of the work we started with [dav1d](/developers/dav1d.html), our AV1 decoder, and is developed by members of the VideoLAN community under the same BSD-style license.
This first version is a feature-complete AVM v15 decoder, supporting 8-bit and 10-bit decoding, with optimizations for x86 (AVX2), ARM (AArch64 NEON) and RISC-V. This is still early work, and our focus remains on correctness, conformance, optimization and platform support.
You can find more information in this blog post.
We are pleased to release version 3.7.0 of the VLC version for the Android platform.
It comes with a completely new equalizer and an improved settings backup. See our Android page.
Rémi Denis-Courmont: VLC 3.0.22-rc2 plays Doom music files
With the back-port of the VLC DMXMUS plugin from VLC 4.0,
     versions 3.0.22-RC2 and later are able to play music files
     from the 1990's DMX sound library such as Doom, Doom II and Heretic.[...]
Rémi Denis-Courmont: SpacemiT's Integrated Matrix Extension
Breaking down the SpacemiT X60's matrix product.[...]
Rémi Denis-Courmont: C908 & X60 HCF instructions
Decoding the HCF instructions from the GhostWrite paper.[...]