MONGODB ATLAS
One data platform. Unlimited AI potential.
Combine operational data, vectors, and streaming data in a unified platform.
Vector Search Use Cases
MongoDB Atlas integrates operational and vector databases in a single, unified platform. Use vector representations of your data to perform semantic search, build recommendation engines, design Q&A systems, detect anomalies, or provide context for generative AI Apps.
Stream Processing Use Cases
Build scalable event-driven applications that react and respond in near real-time. Atlas Stream Processing unifies the developer experience, enabling you to work with high-velocity data streams from sources like Apache Kafka using the same familiar MongoDB Aggregation Pipeline stages you use for your database.
Operational Use Cases
Optimize write performance with a document data model that maps to your application’s access patterns. Meet a wide range of query requirements via a single query API that supports everything from simple lookups to complex processing pipelines for data analytics and transformations.
Transactional Use Cases
Guarantee millisecond response times at scale with a flexible document data model and rich query capabilities—including secondary indexing, joins, multi-document ACID transactions, and more.
Search Use Cases
Combine three systems—database, search engine, and sync mechanisms—into one and deliver 30%-50% faster. Build catalog and content search, in-app search, and single view into your application with MongoDB Search on Atlas.
Analytical Use Cases
Unify the core capabilities needed for application-driven analytics with MongoDB Atlas. Perform powerful aggregations and transformations in place and in real time. Leverage optimized indexes, storage, data formats, and an extensive ecosystem of native and integrated analytics services to build smarter applications and achieve real-time business visibility.
Graph Use Cases
Elevate your applications by leveraging MongoDB's native graph data support. Efficiently analyze relationships between data entities in your collections for pattern discovery and intelligent predictions. It’s ideal for powering recommendation systems, fraud detection mechanisms, and managing networks.
Geospatial Use Cases
Easily build applications that leverage geospatial data with MongoDB's native support for GeoJSON and simple coordinate pairs. Harness specialized indexes for blazing-fast queries. It’s your one-stop solution for logistics, location-based services, and spatial analysis.
Your AI Data Platform is Ready
START HERE
Start shipping AI-native applications
Complex pipelines slow development. Deploy production-ready AI features faster on an AI-ready data platform.