Advancing Energy Tech
Schneider Electric
Advancing Energy Tech
We electrify, automate, and digitalize every industry, business, and home, driving efficiency and sustainability for all.
Find products and solutions available in your region
Are you looking for product information? Begin by selecting your location.
Our expertise backed by realâworld results
Explore insights, verified customer results, and technologies demonstrating measurable gains in efficiency, resilience, and performance across energy and industrial systems.
Why 73% of industrial data never reaches a decision
How AI and electrification are reshaping energy management
How hospital retrofits cut energy use and carbon fast
Podcast: How modern DCIM connects power, cooling, and compute in one view
We are the global leader in energy technology
About Schneider Electric
With 160,000 employees worldwide, we electrify, automate, and digitalize industries, businesses, and homes.
Our history
Explore our 190-year journey of defining innovations and transformation.
Global Innovation Hubs
Engage with our advanced energy management and industrial automation technologies through over 100 hubs worldwide.
Sustainability
Learn how we lead the way, turning sustainability commitments into impact.
Navigate complexity with confidence
Turn ambitious targets into measurable results with SE Advisory Services. We partner with you to solve complex energy and sustainability challenges with an integrated approach and software that unifies data, automates action, and empowers teams.
Our expertise, your success
Vancouver International Airport (YVR)
Discover how Vancouver International Airport (YVR) is transforming into a leading sustainable aviation hub in North America through its bold net-zero ambition.
Henkel optimizes energy efficiency for a net-zero future
Partnership powers Henkel to drive innovation and sustainability in its production sites through Schneider Electricâs energy technology, including monitoring software and advisory services.
Build your career in energy innovation
Become part of our purposeâdriven team solving realâworld energy and sustainability challenges. Explore open roles and discover how your skills can drive meaningful change.