NRDC is in court defending against the Trump administration's relentless assault on our environment. Wildlife. Public lands. Climate protections. All on the line. You can help by making a gift today. Your support will be 3X MATCHED up to $50,000.
With the support of 3 million members and activists, NRDC’s lawyers, scientists, and policy experts take on the toughest environmental fights—and win. Join us by donating today.
For more than 50 years, NRDC (Natural Resources Defense Council) has been shaping critical environmental policies around the world, ensuring those policies are upheld and holding polluters accountable.
2tr+
Gallons of gasoline saved since 1975, thanks to federal clean transportation rules
1,100
Deaths avoided annually since implementing the heat action plan in Ahmedabad, India
$97m
Legal settlement to examine and replace the water lines in Flint, Michigan
Building a Better Future
Help us ensure the rights of all people to clean air, clean water, and healthy communities.
Don't let fossil fuel companies off the hook for polluting public lands!
Trump's Interior Department is moving to gut the Oil and Gas Leasing Rule, which helps ensure that the fossil fuel industry is held accountable for the pollution it generates on public lands. You have until August 24 to submit a public comment to make your voice heard about this dangerous plan.
Thanks for signing up. You’ll receive your first NRDC action alert and update email soon!
OVER 3 MILLION SUPPORTERS AND GROWING: Subscribe to take action to safeguard the earth.
Enter Email
This field is required.
Submit
When you sign up, you’ll become a member of NRDC’s Activist Network. We will keep you informed with the latest alerts and progress reports.
Thank you for subscribing!
We will be reaching out to you at: [Email]
Can we send you urgent text alerts?
Enter Mobile Phone Number
This field is required.
PLEASE SEND TEXT MESSAGE ALERTS
By entering my mobile number and leaving this box checked, I agree to receive urgent NRDC Alerts. Message frequency varies. Text HELP to 61636 for help; text STOP to 61636 to end. Msg & data rates may apply. I understand that I’m not required to opt-in as condition for taking action or donating. By unchecking this box, I will not be opted-in to SMS messages at this time. Read our Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions.
Submit
Thank you for the information!
Providing us ways to reach out allows us to work together to solve the issues facing us. You can expect updates at: