The Official Website of the State of Arkansas
You now need a REAL ID-compliant license or ID to board domestic flights or enter certain federal facilities. Don’t wait—check your eligibility and upgrade your license today.
Whether you’re an individual or a business, you’ll find step-by-step guidance, key deadlines, downloadable forms, and answers to common questions — all conveniently in one place.
Secure, convenient digital identification—Carry your driver’s license or state ID on your smartphone, giving you easy access to your credentials while protecting your personal information.
Launch connects you with in-demand careers, job opportunities, and training programs in Arkansas. Whether you’re starting out or upskilling, find personalized pathways to match your goals.
View child support payments, establish a child support order or paternity, and/or request support modification through the Office of Child Support Enforcement.
Build a brighter educational future for your loved ones. No matter what your education savings goals may be, the Arkansas Brighter Future 529 Plan can help you get there.
Arkansas residents can renew their car tags online with ARStar, a convenient and efficient option for avoiding long lines and wait times at the DMV.
Order certified copies of birth certificates, correct errors and obtain birth certificates for individuals born in the state through the Arkansas Department of Vital Records.
Arkansas residents can assess their personal property online and pay their personal property taxes through the Arkansas Department of Finance and Administration’s online portal.
There’s no limit to what people with disabilities can do. Now, that includes saving, too. With AR ABLE, you can save for qualified disability expenses without losing your eligibility for certain assistance programs, like SSI and Medicaid.
Inaugurated on January 10, 2023, she is the first woman to serve as governor of the state and currently is the youngest governor in the country.
Use your address to find your federal and local elected officials. Learn how to contact them, bills they’ve sponsored, committees they serve on, and more.
Whether you’re visiting Arkansas for the first time or a long-time resident, you can experience all the Natural State has to offer. Discover things to do, places to stay, unique eats, events, and more!
08/13/2026
Arkansas is known for its picturesque landscapes and stunning natural beauty. The state boasts of an abundance of outdoor activities that can be enjoyed throughout the year, such as hiking, camping, fishing, and boating. The state is home to the Ozark and Ouachita Mountains, which offer breathtaking views, cascading waterfalls, and numerous hiking trails. Additionally, the state has over 600,000 acres of lakes and nearly 10,000 miles of rivers, making it a haven for fishing and water sports enthusiasts. With its mild climate, Arkansas is an ideal destination for outdoor enthusiasts looking to escape the hustle and bustle of city life and immerse themselves in nature.