The Desktop spins feature specific Linux Desktop Environments. Our official Workstation Edition uses the GNOME Desktop, but you can install Fedora preconfigured with any of the listed Desktop Environments.
These documentation pages are contributor-focused. They include Fedora's guidelines, teams, organizational structure, and legal docs. If you are looking for user guides (installation, getting started, etc.) check under the Help menu.
These are sites where updates about new and upcomming events, releases, packages, and projects are likely to be posted. You might want to subscribe to some of these to get the notices in your inbox.
This is Fedora's main forum for all project collaboration and user support. Also, if you have encountered a problem that might be a software bug, this is a good place to triage it with other users before escalating it to Red Hat's bugzilla reporting system. TIP: You can append .rss to these URLs to use them in your favorite RSS feed reader.
These are some convenient links to the discussion threads for several of Fedora's larger subprojects and special interest groups. TIP: You can append .rss to these URLs to use them in your favorite RSS feed reader.
These are a few free-form communication channels and some links to information about Fedora's release parties and annual conferences. Fedorans regularly come together to celebrate our community and the hard work that we put into it!
This is Fedora's main forum for all project collaboration and user support. Also, if you have encountered a problem that might be a software bug, this is a good place to triage it with other users before escalating it to Red Hat's bugzilla reporting system. TIP: You can append .rss to these URLs to use them in your favorite RSS feed reader.
The Fedora Project is a community of people working together to build a free and open source software platform and to collaborate on and share user-focused solutions built on that platform. Or, in plain English, we make an operating system and we make it easy for you to do useful stuff with it.
If you prefer an alternative desktop environment such as Xfce, Cinnamon or MATE you can download a Fedora Spin for your preferred desktop environment and use that to install Fedora, pre-configured for the desktop environment of your choice.
Fedora Labs is a selection of curated bundles of purpose-driven software and content as curated and maintained by members of the Fedora Community. These may be installed as standalone full versions of Fedora or as add-ons to existing Fedora installations.
Here you will find the Minimal Fedora Linux image, Fedora's online installer, versions of Fedora Linux packaged as containers that can be run on other operating systems, BitTorrent links, and more.