Hey! I'm Julia. Welcome to my blog. Here's every post I've ever written, organized by category.
Enjoy! You can subscribe to a weekly digest of these blog posts.
I publish computer zines at Wizard Zines.
   
 Most recent 10 posts 
Some more things about Django I've been enjoying
Learning a few things about running SQLite
Moving away from Tailwind, and learning to structure my CSS
Links to CSS colour palettes
Testing Vue components in the browser
Examples for the tcpdump and dig man pages
Notes on clarifying man pages
Some notes on starting to use Django
A data model for Git (and other docs updates)
Notes on switching to Helix from vim
and all posts by category: (or see popular posts)
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Some more things about Django I've been enjoying
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Learning a few things about running SQLite
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Moving away from Tailwind, and learning to structure my CSS
    
    
    
      
    
    Links to CSS colour palettes
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Testing Vue components in the browser
    
    
    
      
    
    Examples for the tcpdump and dig man pages
    
    
    
      
    
    Notes on clarifying man pages
    
    
    
      
    
    Some notes on starting to use Django
    
    
    
      
    
    A data model for Git (and other docs updates)
    
    
    
      
    
    Notes on switching to Helix from vim
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    New zine: The Secret Rules of the Terminal
    
    
    
      
    
    Using `make` to compile C programs (for non-C-programmers)
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Some Go web dev notes
    
    
    
      
    
    Reasons I still love the fish shell
    
    
    
      
    
    What helps people get comfortable on the command line?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Lima: a nice way to run Linux VMs on Mac
    
    
    
      
    
    Monitoring tiny web services
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Notes on running containers with bubblewrap
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    sqlite-utils: a nice way to import data into SQLite for analysis
    
    
    
      
    
    A list of new(ish) command line tools
    
    
    
      
    
    Things that used to be hard and are now easy
    
    
    
      
    
    Hosting my static sites with nginx
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Some notes on using esbuild
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Firecracker: start a VM in less than a second
    
    
    
      
    
    Server-sent events: a simple way to stream events from a server
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Docker Compose: a nice way to set up a dev environment
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    ninja: a simple way to do builds
    
    
    
      
    
    Implementing 'focus and reply' for Fastmail with JMAP
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    scanimage: scan from the command line!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    entr: rerun your build when files change
    
    
    
      
    
    PaperWM: tiled window management for GNOME
    
    
    
      
    
    SQLite is really easy to compile
    
    
    
      
    
    Why are monoidal categories interesting?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Tailwind: style your site without writing any CSS!
    
    
    
      
    
    An awesome new Python profiler: py-spy!
    
    
    
      
    
    Batch editing files with ed
    
    
    
      
    
    Glitch: write fun small web projects instantly
    
    
    
      
    
    Binder: an awesome tool for hosting Jupyter notebooks
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Cool vim feature: sessions!
    
    
    
      
    
    Data structure: the treap!
    
    
    
      
    
    a tiny whack-a-mole game
    
    
    
      
    
    Log-structured storage
    
    
    
      
    
    Using the Strict-Transport-Security header
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    The fish shell is awesome
    
    
    
      
    
    homu + highfive: awesome bots that make open source projects easier
    
    
    
      
    
    you can take the derivative of a regular expression?!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    tcpdump is amazing
    
    
    
      
    
    How to measure your CPU time: clock_gettime!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Fast integer sets with Roaring Bitmaps (and, making friends with your modern CPU)
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Sendfile (a system call for web developers to know about!)
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    PAPERS ARE AMAZING: Profiling threaded programs with Coz
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    LD_PRELOAD is super fun. And easy!
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Using less memory to look up IP addresses in Mess With DNS
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Migrating Mess With DNS to use PowerDNS
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Mounting git commits as folders with NFS
    
    
    
      
    
    Open sourcing the nginx playground
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    New playground: memory spy
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Introducing "Implement DNS in a Weekend"
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    New playground: integer.exposed
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    A list of programming playgrounds
    
    
    
      
    
    Some tiny personal programs I've written
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    New tool: Mess with DNS!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    New tool: an nginx playground
    
    
    
      
    
    Notes on building debugging puzzles
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    A tool to spy on your DNS queries: dnspeep
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    A little tool to make DNS queries
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Notes on git's error messages
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Some Git poll results
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    The "current branch" in git
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How HEAD works in git
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Popular git config options
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Dealing with diverged git branches
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Inside .git
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Do we think of git commits as diffs, snapshots, and/or histories?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    git branches: intuition & reality
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How git cherry-pick and revert use 3-way merge
    
    
    
      
    
    git rebase: what can go wrong?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Confusing git terminology
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Some miscellaneous git facts
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    In a git repository, where do your files live?
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Some notes on NixOS
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Some notes on nix flakes
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How do Nix builds work?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Some notes on using nix
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Why is DNS still hard to learn?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Making a DNS query in Ruby from scratch
    
    
    
      
    
    Why do domain names sometimes end with a dot?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    The multiple meanings of "nameserver" and "DNS resolver"
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    A toy DNS resolver
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Some ways DNS can break
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Why might you run your own DNS server?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    DNS "propagation" is actually caches expiring
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    What happens when you update your DNS?
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Standards for ANSI escape codes
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How to add a directory to your PATH
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Some terminal frustrations
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    What's involved in getting a "modern" terminal setup?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    "Rules" that terminal programs follow
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Why pipes sometimes get "stuck": buffering
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    ASCII control characters in my terminal
    
    
    
      
    
    Terminal colours are tricky
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Entering text in the terminal is complicated
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Reasons to use your shell's job control
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    What happens when you press a key in your terminal?
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    How to send raw network packets in Python with tun/tap
    
    
    
      
    
    A toy remote login server
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Reasons for servers to support IPv6
    
    
    
      
    
    How to put an HTML page on the internet
    
    
    
      
    
    Networking tool comics!
    
    
    
      
    
    An example of how C++ destructors are useful in Envoy
    
    
    
      
    
    Some Envoy basics
    
    
    
      
    
    Editing my blog's HTTP headers with Cloudflare workers
    
    
    
      
    
    IP addresses & routing
    
    
    
      
    
    netdev day 2: moving away from "as fast as possible" in networking code
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    netdev day 1: IPsec!
    
    
    
      
    
    How I use Wireshark
    
    
    
      
    
    A few things I've learned about computer networking
    
    
    
      
    
    Finding out if/why a server is dropping packets
    
    
    
      
    
    What's a network interface?
    
    
    
      
    
    Iptables basics
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    netdev conference, day 3
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    netdev conference, day 2
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How to filter packets super fast: XDP & eBPF!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    netdev conference, day 1
    
    
    
      
    
    Slow down your internet with tc
    
    
    
      
    
    How big can a packet get?
    
    
    
      
    
    Dissecting an SSL certificate
    
    
    
      
    
    What's interesting about UDP?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Why do UDP packets get dropped?
    
    
    
      
    
    How do HTTP requests get sent to the right place?
    
    
    
      
          ★
      
    
    Why do we use the Linux kernel's TCP stack?
    
    
    
      
    
    What are SSL ciphers & session keys?
    
    
    
      
    
    CDNs aren't just for caching
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Go structs are copied on assignment (and other things about Go I'd missed)
    
    
    
      
    
    Notes on using a single-person Mastodon server
    
    
    
      
    
    Behind "Hello World" on Linux
    
    
    
      
    
    Implementing a toy version of TLS 1.3
    
    
    
      
    
    How to use undocumented web APIs
    
    
    
      
    
    Some things about getaddrinfo that surprised me
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How to find a domain's authoritative nameservers
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How to use dig
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How do you tell if a problem is caused by DNS?
    
    
    
      
    
    Tools to explore BGP
    
    
    
      
    
    Quadratic algorithms are slow (and hashmaps are fast)
    
    
    
      
    
    How to look at the stack with gdb
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    The OSI model doesn't map well to TCP/IP
    
    
    
      
    
    Why strace doesn't work in Docker
    
    
    
      
    
    Getting started with shaders: signed distance functions!
    
    
    
      
    
    "server" is hard to define
    
    
    
      
    
    How tracking pixels work
    
    
    
      
    
    How containers work: overlayfs
    
    
    
      
    
    SQL queries don't start with SELECT
    
    
    
      
    
    How does gdb call functions?
    
    
    
      
    
    How do groups work on Linux?
    
    
    
      
    
    Async IO on Linux: select, poll, and epoll
    
    
    
      
    
    Weird unix thing: 'cd //'
    
    
    
      
          ★
      
    
    What happens when you start a process on Linux?
    
    
    
      
    
    How does gdb work?
    
    
    
      
    
    Should you be scared of Unix signals?
    
    
    
      
    
    I conquered thread pools! For today, at least.
    
    
    
      
    
    Thread pools! How do I use them?
    
    
    
      
    
    What is "the stack"?
    
    
    
      
    
    Why Ruby’s Timeout is dangerous (and Thread.raise is terrifying)
    
    
    
      
          
      
          ★
      
          
      
    
    Why you should understand (a little) about TCP
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
     How the locate command works (and let's write a faster version in one minute!)
    
    
    
      
          
      
          ★
      
    
    How gzip uses Huffman coding
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          ★
      
    
    Diving into concurrency: trying out mutexes and atomics
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How does SQLite work? Part 2: btrees! (or: disk seeks are slow don't do them!)
    
    
    
      
          
      
          ★
      
    
    How does SQLite work? Part 1: pages!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How is a binary executable organized? Let's explore it!
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          
      
          ★
      
    
    What happens if you write a TCP stack in Python?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Diving into HDFS
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Three steps to learning GDB
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Some possible reasons for 8-bit bytes
    
    
    
      
    
    Why does 0.1 + 0.2 = 0.30000000000000004?
    
    
    
      
    
    Examples of problems with integers
    
    
    
      
    
    Examples of floating point problems
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Importing a frontend Javascript library without a build system
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Writing Javascript without a build system
    
    
    
      
    
    A little bit of plain Javascript can do a lot
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Operating a Kubernetes network
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Reasons Kubernetes is cool
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How Kubernetes certificate authorities work
    
    
    
      
    
    Cherry picking commits & shell scripting in golang
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How does the Kubernetes scheduler work?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    A few things I've learned about Kubernetes
    
    
    
      
    
    Swapping, memory limits, and cgroups
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    A container networking overview
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    What happens when you run a rkt container?
    
    
    
      
    
    Running containers without Docker
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    What even is a container: namespaces and cgroups
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    A list of Linux container software
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    "I just want to run a container!"
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Some questions about Docker and rkt
    
    
    
      
    
    Docker is amazing
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    New zine: How Git Works!
    
    
    
      
    
    New zine: How Integers and Floats Work
    
    
    
      
    
    Print copies of The Pocket Guide to Debugging have arrived
    
    
    
      
    
    New zine: The Pocket Guide to Debugging
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Pages that didn't make it into "How DNS Works"
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    New zine: How DNS Works!
    
    
    
      
    
    All my zines are now available in print!
    
    
    
      
    
    You can now buy print version of my zines!
    
    
    
      
    
    I put all of my comics online!
    
    
    
      
    
    New zine: Hell Yes! CSS!
    
    
    
      
    
    Wizard Zines' first print run: Help! I have a Manager!
    
    
    
      
    
    Some more CSS comics
    
    
    
      
    
    Some CSS comics
    
    
    
      
    
    New zine: How Containers Work!
    
    
    
      
    
    New zine: Become a SELECT Star!
    
    
    
      
    
    Your Linux Toolbox: a box set of my free zines
    
    
    
      
    
    New zine: HTTP: Learn your browser's language!
    
    
    
      
    
    New zine: Bite Size Networking!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    New zine: Oh shit, git!
    
    
    
      
    
    New zine: Help! I have a manager!
    
    
    
      
    
    New zine: Bite Size Command Line!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    New zine: Profiling & tracing with perf!!
    
    
    
      
    
    New zine: So you want to be a wizard
    
    
    
      
    
    Linux comics: a small zine
    
    
    
      
    
    Linux tracing zine
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    "Let's learn tcpdump" zine: now available for everyone
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    New zine: let's learn tcpdump!
    
    
    
      
    
    New zine: "Networking! ACK!"
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    A tiny zine about machine learning
    
    
    
      
    
    More drawings about computers
    
    
    
      
    
    A few drawings about Linux
    
    
    
      
    
    New zine: Linux debugging tools you'll love
    
    
    
      
    
    A few sketches
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    A zine about strace
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Questions to help people decide what to learn
    
    
    
      
    
    Challenge: find Twitter memes with suffix arrays
    
    
    
      
    
    Solutions to the tiny window manager challenge
    
    
    
      
    
    Challenge: Write a bouncy window manager
    
    
    
      
    
    What makes a programming exercise good?
    
    
    
      
    
    Notes on building SQL exercises
    
    
    
      
    
    git exercises: navigate a repository
    
    
    
      
    
    curl exercises
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Some tactics for writing in public
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Some blogging myths
    
    
    
      
    
    Teaching by filling in knowledge gaps
    
    
    
      
    
    Patterns in confusing explanations
    
    
    
      
    
    Write good examples by starting with real code
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Building a custom site for zine feedback
    
    
    
      
    
    How I write useful programming comics
    
    
    
      
    
    A new way I'm getting feedback on my zines: beta readers!
    
    
    
      
    
    Some possible future zines
    
    
    
      
    
    An attempt to make a font look more handwritten
    
    
    
      
    
    Some notes on vector drawing apps
    
    
    
      
    
    Some research on shipping print zines
    
    
    
      
    
    Zine revenue for 2019
    
    
    
      
    
    Taking a year to explain computer things
    
    
    
      
    
    How to write zines with simple tools
    
    
    
      
    
    How do you document a tech project with comics?
    
    
    
      
    
    When does teaching with comics work well?
    
    
    
      
    
    Why sell zines?
    
    
    
      
    
    How to teach technical concepts with cartoons
    
    
    
      
    
    Handwritten books
    
    
    
      
    
    An idea for a programming book
    
    
    
      
    
    Why cute drawings?
    
    
    
      
    
    How (and why) I made a zine
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    !!Con 2019: submit a talk!
    
    
    
      
    
    Systems We Love 2016
    
    
    
      
    
    PolyConf 2016
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Women in Machine Learning 2015 (fun!!!)
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    AdaCamp Montreal 2015
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Data Day Texas 2015
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    PyData NYC (I gave a machine learning talk! yay!)
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Strange Loop 2014
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    !!Con talks are up
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    ♥ PyCon
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    CUSEC = fun
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    PyData Boston 2013
    
    
    
      
    
    Open Data Exchange 2013
    
    
    
      
    
    Montreal All-Girl Hack Night #2: now with cookies
    
    
    
      
    
    Montreal All-Girl Hack Night #1: AMAZING
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Ideas for making better conference talks & conferences
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    You can choose who submits talks to your conference
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Should my conference do anonymous review?
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Anonymous talk review is amazing.
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    A few things I've learned about email marketing
    
    
    
      
    
    saturday comics: a weekly mailing list of programming comics
    
    
    
      
    
    A few early marketing thoughts
    
    
    
      
    
    Who pays to educate developers?
    
    
    
      
    
    I started a corporation!
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    An attempt at implementing char-rnn with PyTorch
    
    
    
      
    
    Some nonparametric statistics math
    
    
    
      
    
    Some good "Statistics for programmers" resources
    
    
    
      
    
    How do these "neural network style transfer" tools work?
    
    
    
      
    
    A few reasons to be skeptical of machine learning
    
    
    
      
    
    Looking inside machine learning black boxes
    
    
    
      
    
    Winning the bias-variance tradeoff
    
    
    
      
          
      
          ★
      
          
      
    
    How to trick a neural network into thinking a panda is a vulture
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Is machine learning safe to use?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Some easy statistics: Bootstrap confidence intervals
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    A/A testing
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Fun with machine learning: logistic regression!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Fun with machine learning: does your model actually work?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Fun with stats: How big of a sample size do I need?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Machine learning isn't Kaggle competitions
    
    
    
      
          
      
          ★
      
    
    A pandas cookbook
    
    
    
      
    
    Graphing bike path data with IPython Notebook and pandas
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    2023: Year in review
    
    
    
      
    
    Some business graphs for 2022
    
    
    
      
    
    2021: Year in review
    
    
    
      
    
    2020: Year in review
    
    
    
      
    
    2019: Year in review
    
    
    
      
    
    2018: Year in review
    
    
    
      
    
    2017: Year in review
    
    
    
      
    
    2016: Year in review
    
    
    
      
    
    2015: Year in review
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    New talk: Making Hard Things Easy
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    New talk: Learning DNS in 10 years
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    New talk: High Reliability Infrastructure Migrations
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Build impossible programs
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    So you want to be a wizard
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Some notes on running new software in production
    
    
    
      
    
    What can developers learn from being on call?
    
    
    
      
    
    Bash scripting quirks & safety tips
    
    
    
      
    
    Ideas about how to use AWS
    
    
    
      
    
    Service discovery at Stripe
    
    
    
      
    
    Consistency vs availability (wat?)
    
    
    
      
    
    What's devops?
    
    
    
      
    
    Operations for software developers for beginners
    
    
    
      
    
    How do you do capacity planning?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Why I love log files
    
    
    
      
          ★
      
    
    TIL: clock skew exists
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Fear makes you a worse programmer
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Get better at programming by learning how things work
    
    
    
      
    
    Things your manager might not know
    
    
    
      
    
    When your coworker does great work, tell their manager
    
    
    
      
    
    Tell candidates what to expect from your job interviews
    
    
    
      
    
    Questions you can ask about compensation
    
    
    
      
    
    Get your work recognized: write a brag document
    
    
    
      
    
    What's a senior engineer's job?
    
    
    
      
    
    Some possible career goals
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Open source sabbatical = awesome
    
    
    
      
    
    Writing performance reviews with positive constructive feedback
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Taking a sabbatical to work on Ruby profiling tools
    
    
    
      
    
    Telling people what you're working on
    
    
    
      
    
    Writing down my career
    
    
    
      
    
    Hiring & opportunity
    
    
    
      
    
    Choosing the "best software"
    
    
    
      
          ★
      
    
    Getting things done
    
    
    
      
    
    How I got a CS degree without learning what a system call is
    
    
    
      
    
    Release it, then build it
    
    
    
      
          ★
      
    
    How do you decide what to work on?
    
    
    
      
    
    Three ways to solve hard programming problems
    
    
    
      
    
    Talking about stock options = awesome
    
    
    
      
          ★
      
    
    Things you should know about stock options before negotiating an offer
    
    
    
      
    
    1:1 topic ideas
    
    
    
      
          ★
      
    
    How I learned to program in 10 years
    
    
    
      
    
    Stopping to think
    
    
    
      
    
    Becoming a better developer (it's not just writing more programs)
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Sounding confident in interviews
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    What my technical interviews have looked like
    
    
    
      
          ★
      
          
      
    
    Questions I'm asking in interviews
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Making small culture changes
    
    
    
      
    
    How do you make an awesome team?
    
    
    
      
    
    Learning to like design documents
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Senior engineering & fantasy heroes
    
    
    
      
    
    On reading the source code, not the docs
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Pair programming is amazing! Except... when it's not.
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Pair programming
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Working remotely, 4 years in
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Surviving meetings while remote
    
    
    
      
    
    Working remote, 8 months in (seeing humans is important!)
    
    
    
      
    
    Working remote, 3 months in
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Reports from remote-land: remote pairing works great!
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    A few recent podcasts
    
    
    
      
    
    Talk: Building a Ruby profiler
    
    
    
      
    
    How does the internet work? podcast
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    A swiss army knife of debugging tools: talk & transcript
    
    
    
      
    
    Notes from my PyData Berlin keynote
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    A few notes on my CUSEC talk
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Ruby Rogues podcast: systems programming tricks!
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    New microblog with TILs
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Some notes on upgrading Hugo
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Blog about what you've struggled with
    
    
    
      
    
    Metaphors in man pages
    
    
    
      
    
    Organizing this blog into categories
    
    
    
      
    
    Talks I'd love to see at RustConf
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Measuring a blog's success: focus on conversations, not page views
    
    
    
      
    
    How I set up an automatic weekly blog digest
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Blogging principles I use
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Switching to Hugo
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    "advice" for aspiring tech bloggers
    
    
    
      
    
    Reproducing awesomeness
    
    
    
      
    
    How to set up a blog in 5 minutes
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Open sourced talks!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    You should give talks. They will be awesome. Here's why!
    
    
    
      
    
    Trying out Octopress
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Celebrate tiny learning milestones
    
    
    
      
    
    How to get useful answers to your questions
    
    
    
      
    
    How to teach yourself hard things
    
    
    
      
    
    How to answer questions in a helpful way
    
    
    
      
    
    Learning at work
    
    
    
      
    
    Rules of programming experiments
    
    
    
      
    
    How to ask good questions
    
    
    
      
    
    Asking good questions is hard (but worth it)
    
    
    
      
    
    How does knowledge get locked up in people's heads?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Asking questions is a superpower
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    "Ask if you have questions" isn't enough
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    A couple of Rust error messages
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Rust in 2018: it's way easier to use!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    My first Rust macro
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Debugging a segfault in my Rust program
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Bindgen: awesome Rust tool for generating C bindings
    
    
    
      
    
    What's a reference in Rust?
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          ★
      
    
    Learning systems programming with Rust
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    A second try at using Rust
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Calling C from Rust
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          ★
      
    
    Why I ❤ Rust
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    My Rust OS will never be finished (and it's a success!)
    
    
    
      
          
      
          ★
      
          
      
    
    Writing an OS in Rust in tiny steps (Steps 1-5)
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Some things my kernel can't do
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    What problems do people solve with strace?
    
    
    
      
    
    A perf cheat sheet
    
    
    
      
    
    Linux tracing systems & how they fit together
    
    
    
      
    
    Notes on BPF & eBPF
    
    
    
      
    
    3 short screencasts (/proc, tcpdump, strace)
    
    
    
      
    
    ftrace: trace your kernel functions!
    
    
    
      
          ★
      
    
    Linux debugging tools I love
    
    
    
      
    
    Using ltrace to debug a memory leak
    
    
    
      
    
    A useful new strace feature
    
    
    
      
    
    A workshop on strace & tcpdump
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    How does perf work? (in which we read the Linux kernel source)
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    perf top: an awesome way to spy on CPU usage
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    A few spy tools for your operating system (other than strace!)
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Seeing system calls with perf instead of strace
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Spying on Hadoop with strace
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          
      
          
      
    
    I can spy on my CPU cycles with perf!
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          ★
      
    
    Debug your programs like they're closed source!
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Debugging shared library problems with strace
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    More practical uses for strace!
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Using strace to avoid reading Ruby code
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Spying on ssh with strace
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Understanding how killall works using strace
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    A debugging manifesto
    
    
    
      
    
    Tips for analyzing logs
    
    
    
      
    
    Some ways to get better at debugging
    
    
    
      
    
    Debugging by starting a REPL at a breakpoint is fun
    
    
    
      
    
    Reasons why bugs might feel "impossible"
    
    
    
      
    
    When debugging, your attitude matters
    
    
    
      
    
    What does debugging a program look like?
    
    
    
      
          ★
      
    
    How I got better at debugging
    
    
    
      
    
    Coding strategies
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Debugging a weird 'file not found' error
    
    
    
      
    
    Reverse engineering the Notability file format
    
    
    
      
    
    Debugging netlink requests
    
    
    
      
    
    A small website mystery
    
    
    
      
    
    Investigating Erlang by reading its system calls
    
    
    
      
    
    Surprises in Ruby HTTP libraries
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Nancy Drew and the Case of the Slow Program
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Awesome NLP tutorials by Allison Parrish
    
    
    
      
    
    Like zines about computers? You might love Bubblesort Zines
    
    
    
      
    
    A magical machine learning art tool
    
    
    
      
    
    "A Critique of the CAP Theorem"
    
    
    
      
    
    Some of my favorite blogs
    
    
    
      
    
    A few blogs I really like
    
    
    
      
    
    Julia Serano's 'Excluded'
    
    
    
      
    
    Transit maps: 1941 vs 2011
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    No feigning surprise
    
    
    
      
    
    A litmus test for job descriptions
    
    
    
      
    
    Women-only spaces are a hack
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    An argument for hiring junior developers
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Programming doesn't belong to men (it belongs to me)
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    What women in technology really think (150 of them, at least)
    
    
    
      
          ★
      
    
    When is "guys" gender neutral? I did a survey!
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Making crochet cacti
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Documentation site for rbspy!
    
    
    
      
    
    Prototyping an ltrace clone using eBPF
    
    
    
      
    
    Profiler week 6/7: more experiments, and a `report` subcommand!
    
    
    
      
    
    Profiler week 5: Mac support, experiments profiling memory allocations
    
    
    
      
    
    Writing eBPF tracing tools in Rust
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Spying on a Ruby process's memory allocations with eBPF
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Profiler week 4: callgrind support, containers, Mac progress!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    I think I found a Mac kernel bug?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How do you spy on a program running in a container?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How do you read the memory maps of a Mac process?
    
    
    
      
    
    Profiler week 3: refactoring, better testing, and an alpha release!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Profiler week 2: support for 1.9.3 -> 2.5.0, and line numbers!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Should I pause a Ruby process to collect its stack?
    
    
    
      
    
    Profiler adventures: resolving symbol addresses is hard!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Profiler week 1: testing & profiling stripped binaries
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How are Ruby's headers different from Python's headers?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How often do Ruby's stack struct definitions change?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How do Ruby & Python profilers work?
    
    
    
      
          ★
      
    
    How to spy on a Ruby program
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Profiling Go programs with pprof
    
    
    
      
    
    How much memory is my process using?
    
    
    
      
    
    Benchmarking correctly is hard (and techniques for doing it better)
    
    
    
      
    
    The Etsy site performance report is amazing
    
    
    
      
    
    Some links on Java garbage collection
    
    
    
      
    
    Java garbage collection can be really slow
    
    
    
      
    
    I/O matters.
    
    
    
      
    
    Have high expectations for your computers
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How CPU load averages work (and using them to triage webserver performance!)
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Java isn't slow
    
    
    
      
          
      
          ★
      
    
    A millisecond isn't fast (and how we made it 100x faster)
    
    
    
      
          
      
          ★
      
          
      
    
    Computers are *fast*!
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    Figuring out how to contribute to open source
    
    
    
      
    
    A few questions about open source
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Learning at open source sprints (no preparation required)
    
    
    
      
          ★
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Don't feel guilty about not contributing to open source
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    How to get a core dump for a segfault on Linux
    
    
    
      
    
    Things to learn about Linux
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Guessing Linux kernel registers
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    You can be a kernel hacker!
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Recovering files using /proc (and spying, too!)
    
    
    
      
          
      
          ★
      
    
    4 paths to being a kernel hacker
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 57: Trying to set up GitHub Actions
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 56: A little WebAssembly
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 53: a little nginx, IPv6, and wireguard
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 52: testing how many Firecracker VMs I can run
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 51: Fixed my logging and made a couple of puzzles
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 50: Building some tarballs for puzzles, and trying to make a kernel boot faster
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 49: making the VMs boot faster
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 48: Another Go program, and a little vim configuration
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 47: Using device mapper to manage Firecracker images
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 46: debugging an iptables problem
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 44: Building my VMs with Docker
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 43: Building VM images
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 42: Writing a Go program to manage Firecracker VMs
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 41: Trying to understand what a bridge is
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 40: screen flickering & a talk about containers
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 39: Customizing gotty's terminal
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 38: Modifying gotty to serve many different terminal applications at once
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 37: A new laptop and a little Vue
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 35: Launching my VMs more reliably
    
    
    
      
    
    Daily blog posts about my time at RC
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 34: Learning about qemu
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 33: pairing is magic and beautiful git diffs
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 32: A Rails model that doesn't use the database with ActiveHash
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 24: a short talk about blogging myths, and a debugging tip
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 23: a little Rails testing
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 22: getting OAuth to work in Rails
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 21: wrangling systemd & setting up git deploys to a VM
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 19: Clustering faces (poorly) using an autoencoder
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 20: trying to figure out how Google Cloud IAM works
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 18: an answer to an autoencoder question
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 17: trying to wrap my head around autoencoders
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 13: BPTT, and debugging why a model isn't training is hard
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 11: learning about learning rates
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 10: Training an RNN to count to three
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 9: Generating a lot of nonsense with an RNN
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 8: Start with something that works
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 5: drawing lots of faces with sketch-rnn
    
    
    
      
    
    How do you write simple explanations without sounding condescending?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 3: an infinitely tall fridge
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 2: Rails associations & dragging divs around
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 1: a confusing Rails error message
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    I'm doing another Recurse Center batch!
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
      
    
    How I spent my time at the Recurse Center
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    How I did Hacker School: ignoring things I understand and doing the impossible
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Hacker School's Secret Strategy for Being Super Productive (or: Help.)
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    "How was Hacker School?"
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 46: Never Graduate
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 45: I now have Rust code for executing executables!
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 44: qemu + gdb = so great
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          ★
      
    
    Day 43: SOMETHING IS ERASING MY PROGRAM WHILE IT’S RUNNING (oh wait oops)
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 42: How to run a simple ELF executable, from scratch (I don't know)
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 41: Linkers are upsetting
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 39: Writing malloc wrong, for fun
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 40: 12 things I learned today about linkers.
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 40: Linkers are amazing.
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 38: After 6 days, I have problems that I can't understand at all
    
    
    
      
          
      
          ★
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 37: After 5 days, my OS doesn't crash when I press a key
    
    
    
      
          
      
          ★
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 36: On programming without malloc
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 35: Types in Rust, for beginners
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          
      
    
    How to call Rust from assembly, and vice versa
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Videos from PyData NYC are up!
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          ★
      
    
    What happens when you run 'Hello, world'
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Writing a kernel using rustboot & rust-core
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 34b: Writing curl using my TCP stack
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 34: The tiniest operating system
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 33: How to make music with ClojureScript
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 32: Magical Orchestra!!!
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 31: Binary trees with core.logic!
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 30: Making music in Clojure with Overtone. Clojure bugs with laziness! Fun!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 29: Trying out Emacs!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 28: Made a git workflow visualization webapp!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 27: Automatically testing changes in state! Visualizing my Git workflow! Floats!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 25: ACK all the things
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 26: Trying to describe the TCP state machine in a readable way. Failing.
    
    
    
      
    
    Women in Technology workshop at PyData NYC
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 24: Unit testing this TCP library
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 22: Got some TCP packets back!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 23: Started writing a TCP stack in Python
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    NYC Python talk
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 21: Trying to TCP
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 19: A few reasons why networking is hard
    
    
    
      
          
      
          ★
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 20: Traceroute in 15 lines of code using Scapy
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 18: ARP cache poisoning (or: In ur connection, sniffing ur packets)
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 17: How to write a buffer overflow exploit
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          ★
      
          
      
    
    Day 16: gzip + poetry = awesome
    
    
    
      
    
    Do Rails programmers use node.js? Visualizing correlations in command usage
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 15: How a .gz file is structured, redux
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 14: When it's hard to write tests, that's when I should be testing
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 13: Off by one errors
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 12: Why Julia likes Julia
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 10: Goals. Goals? Maybe I need to be *reading* more code?
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 11: How does gzip work?
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 9: Bytecode is made of bytes! CPython isn't scary!
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 8: Julia writes Julia! And remembers that open source is hard.
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 7: An echo server in Clojure
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 6: I wrote a rootkit!
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 5: I wrote a kernel module!!!
    
    
    
      
    
    Where to find bike sharing systems' data feeds
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 4: Processes vs threads, and kernel modules!
    
    
    
      
          
      
          
      
    
    Day 3: What does the Linux kernel even do?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 2: netcat fun!
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Day 1: What does a shell even do?
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Hacker School Day 1: Messing around with the stack in C
    
    
    
      
          
      
    
    Hacker School Day -4: unit testing in C. checkmk!