Gates Foundation
					Our mission is to create a world where every person has the opportunity to live a healthy, productive life.
				
				Learn more about our role
			
Our work
							
					We work with partners around the world to tackle big challenges and improve people’s lives.
				
				
		
Our story
							
					For over 25 years, the Gates Foundation has been committed to tackling the greatest inequities in our world.
				
				
		
How does the work of our partners come to life? How does that work create potential around the world? Watch, read, and experience the stories of good people doing great things that can lead to even greater things.
																									
											
                    Get the Optimist newsletter
                        
                
            
        
                            Join 300,000 readers who see the world differently. Subscribe for hopeful stories about the people and partnerships improving lives around the world — every other week.
                        
                Videos
						While smallholder farmers are facing an increasingly difficult climate, it’s crucial to have climate-resilient resources to improve nutrition and incomes. Learn how an improved tilapia is one example of climate-friendly food that can reduce malnutrition.  
					
							
					
						Public health physician Dr. Marcy Ahun discusses vaccine delivery innovations, like the auto-disable syringe, that have prevented needle reuse and saved lives in the process.  
					
							
					
						An expert reveals some of the most exciting innovations in the R&D pipeline that could transform life for people affected by this deadly disease. 
					
							
					
Foundation facts
            For the year ended December 31, 2025. Amount in U.S. dollars.
        
More about the foundation
	    Our role
    
        For over 25 years, the Gates Foundation has been committed to fighting the greatest inequities in the world.
	    How we work
    
        We are focused on results. Those that can be measured. And those measured in ways beyond numbers.