Teach and learn math in a smarter way
GeoGebra is more than a set of free tools to do math. It’s a platform to connect enthusiastic teachers and students and offer them a new way to explore and learn about math.
Recommended math resources
GeoGebra-curated for Grades 4 to 12
What we offer
Math Resources
Our newest collection of GeoGebra Math Resources has been meticulously crafted by our expert team for Grades 4 to 12.
Math Calculators & Apps
Free tools for an interactive learning and exam experience. Available on all platforms.
Classroom Collaboration
Interactive math lessons with GeoGebra materials available. Integration with various LMSs supported.
Math Solver
Take a photo of your math homework. Get step-by-step solutions with explanations and practice similar problems.
Trusted by millions of teachers and students worldwide
Teachers & Students
Make math interactive
Try our exploration activities to discover important math concepts, then use our practice activities to master these skills.
Explore Resources
Teachers & Students
Explore math with free calculators
Explore our easy-to-use calculators that can be used to promote student-centered discovery-based learning. Perform calculations for any level of mathematics including 3D.
Start Calculator
Teachers
Engage every student
Our Classroom learning platform allows teachers to view student progress real-time and provide individual feedback for personalized learning experience. It helps teachers to encourage active participation and discussion.
Explore Classroom
Our mission
Our mission is to give the best tools for teachers to empower their students to unleash their greatest potential. We go beyond being just a collection of tools. Striving to connect passionate individuals from the education world, we offer a fresh approach to teaching, exploring, and learning mathematics.
About us
Get started using GeoGebra today
Create a free account so you can save your progress any time and access thousands of math resources for you to customize and share with others