Numbers, Facts and Trends Shaping Your World
Most people in India and Pakistan view the other as their greatest geopolitical threat. The two countries also diverge in their views of major world powers. Indians tend to see the United States and Russia favorably, while Pakistanis are highly favorable toward China and overwhelmingly name it as their top ally.
Our typology sorts the public into nine groups based on their political and cultural values, not their party – painting a picture of American politics with far more than two colors.
In 16 middle-income countries surveyed, many people are unsure how U.S. humanitarian aid cuts will affect them, though those with opinions lean negative.
Fossil fuels still dominate global electricity, but wind and solar are surging. In 2025, renewables outpaced coal worldwide for the first time, supplying 34% of electricity.
Growing shares of people see China favorably and have confidence in Xi Jinping, though opinions are much less positive in wealthier nations.
A 36-country survey finds declining ratings for the U.S. amid rising concerns about its foreign policy and the health of its democracy.
Three-quarters of Israelis say the U.S. made the right decision in attacking Iran, while eight-in-ten Palestinians say the opposite. Americans are more divided.
The number of countries with high or very high social hostilities rose for the third year in a row; government interference in worship also increased.
Most U.S. adults who go to religious services say they’ve recently heard from their clergy about at least one political or social issue.
Americans are almost equally split on whether the Ten Commandments should be displayed in public school classrooms. But Republicans, White evangelicals and older Americans are more supportive than other groups.
Six-in-ten US adults say abortion should be legal in all or most cases. Here’s a look at data on abortion rates, providers, demographics and more.
More Americans are using chatbots, and some are adopting AI summaries and smart speakers. But views about AI and how fast it’s advancing tilt negative – even for younger adults.
Over 1,500 new data centers are in development nationwide. Most will be built in rural areas, particularly the South and Midwest, marking a shift from urban locations.
More Americans say data centers have a negative effect on the environment, home energy costs and people’s quality of life nearby than say they have a positive effect.
Just over half of U.S. teens say they’ve used chatbots for help with schoolwork, and 12% say they’ve gotten emotional support from these tools. Teens tend to view AI’s future impact on their lives more positively than negatively.
Pew Research Center has deep roots in U.S. public opinion research. Launched as a project focused primarily on U.S. policy and politics in the early 1990s, the Center has grown over time to study a wide range of topics vital to explaining America to itself and to the world.
Pew Research Center regularly conducts public opinion surveys in countries outside the United States as part of its ongoing exploration of attitudes, values and behaviors around the globe.
Pew Research Center’s Data Labs uses computational methods to complement and expand on the Center’s existing research agenda.
Pew Research Center tracks social, demographic and economic trends, both domestically and internationally.
“A record 23 million Asian Americans trace their roots to more than 20 countries … and the U.S. Asian population is projected to reach 46 million by 2060.”
Neil G. Ruiz,
Head of New Research Initiatives 
How precise are polls…really? Courtney Kennedy let’s us in on a little secret: even the best pollsters need some wiggle room when sharing results. This “wiggle room” (also known as the margin of error) is the range within the true answer likely falls.