Where Innovation Takes Root
How UC Irvine is growing the people, partnerships and ideas shaping Orange County's future
Featured Stories
Beall Applied Innovation
Errol Arkilic leads UC Irvine’s innovation efforts through Beall Applied Innovation
July 28, 2026
UC Irvine Podcast, Business
UC Irvine Podcast: Building OC's next generation of entrepreneurs
July 28, 2026
Campus
Powered by UC Irvine, backed by Y Combinator
July 28, 2026
Biological Sciences
UC Irvine's Department of Systems Biology explores how life's interconnected systems lead to healthier people, stronger science and new discoveries
July 23, 2026
Fuel Discovery, Shape Tomorrow
UC Irvine research delivers real-world impact – from medical innovation to climate resilience. Support ensures discovery continues when the world needs it most.
Learn more
Recent News
UC Irvine News
Social Ecology
Latest UCI-OC Poll: Orange County residents say American Dream is slipping away
August 7, 2026
Campus
Flaunting our faculty
August 3, 2026
Education
Julie Washington appointed dean of UC Irvine School of Education
July 30, 2026
Best in Class
UC Irvine is consistently recognized as a trailblazer in a broad range of fields, garnering national and international honors in every school.
Ranked a top 10 public university in the U.S.
Learn More
$8 billion annual impact in California
Learn More
Top five best-value public university in the U.S.
Learn More
Second among UC campuses for economic diversity
Learn More
Explore UC Irvine
Discover the programs, people and purpose that power your next step.
Academics
Find the right program to match your goals and interests
Admissions
Your path to becoming an Anteater starts here
Campus life
Life beyond the classroom – discover what campus has to offer
Health & Health Sciences
Scientific breakthroughs. Clinical excellence. A commitment to better health. United as one academic health system, UCI Health and the Susan & Henry Samueli College of Health Sciences turn bold ideas into better treatments and outcomes for the people we serve.
Come for the Action—Stay for the Spirit
From events to exhibitions, discover what’s happening at UC Irvine. Zot! Zot! Zot!