As one of the largest telcos in Europe and Africa, Vodafone's mission is to connect everyone. We're shaping an inclusive, sustainable and trusted digital society where people and businesses can thrive. We constantly strive to innovate in ways that empower people and communities, all while protecting the planet.
Our next-generation mobile and broadband networks empower consumers and communities, enabling them to thrive in a fast-paced world. And our passion for innovation helps people everywhere unlock their potential.
As a new age of connectivity dawns in Europe, we're setting the pace as one of the continent's largest providers. Our next gen services are enriching people's lives and ensuring everyone benefits from digital transformation fairly and safely.
AI improving customer net promoter score by 20% across Europe
Empowering Africa
We're spreading digital inclusion across this fast-growing continent. Through Vodapay and M-PESA, we lead our African markets with groundbreaking connectivity, financial, business and merchant services.
Businesses need bold ideas. Our trailblazing solutions – from connectivity to security and cloud – drive transformation for organisations of all sizes.
No matter the size of your business, our technology can help you progress and thrive. With our expertise in connectivity, our leading IoT platform and our global scale, we're taking customers to bold new heights, unlocking transformative value.
215M+
IoT connections
215M+
IoT connections
Perky Blenders: Brewing digital transformation
Transforming businesses
Secure, reliable connectivity with Mobile Private Networks
We believe global connectivity powers progress. Our world-leading subsea cables and satellite technology bring people and businesses closer than ever, fuelling opportunities and bridging digital divides.
Subsea cable systems are an invisible engine driving digital economies. We have over 80 of them joining 100 countries, and we’ll add more as needed to support ever-growing demand.
What are subsea cables?
Expanding our reach
From the remotest places to mid-ocean vessels, our satellite solutions are filling previously unreachable connectivity gaps.
Invention shapes progress and resilience. By exploring revolutionary tools like AI and quantum computing, we're redefining what's possible and building sustainable growth for years to come.
Technology plus imagination equals extraordinary results. From training heart surgeons with augmented reality to IoT tools that deliver the finest Wimbledon strawberries, our potential to innovate is endless.
We have made a good start to this financial year, with broad-based growth across all of our segments and organic service revenue increasing by 5.2%. This revenue growth – coupled with the new phase of our multi-year cost initiatives announced in May – has resulted in organic Adjusted EBITDAaL increasing by 6.2%.
Margherita Della Valle, CEO Vodafone Group
Results highlights
Good service revenue momentum with growth in Europe & Africa
Announced plans to gain control of and fully consolidate Safaricom
Expecting to deliver at the upper end of our FY26 financial guidance ranges
Building an inclusive and trusted digital society
We believe connectivity is a force for good. It’s an essential part of our lives. If we use technology for the things that really matter, it can improve our lives and the world around us.
What if we could make technology a force for good? With Vodafone, you can. Here you can create a better future: for yourself, our customers and the communities we serve.