Through “Welcome FSU,” students can explore the numerous clubs and organizations, fraternities and sororities, intramural sports and other opportunities offered at Florida State.
FSU recognized for quality and affordability by Money Magazine
Florida State University
Preeminence
Florida State University has been officially designated as a preeminent research university in the state by the Florida Legislature as a result of having met a set of rigorous benchmarks.
National High Magnetic Field Laboratory, the only national lab in Florida, holds the most world records for the most powerful magnets on Earth.
Florida State University offers a holistic admissions process centered on the core values of strength, skill, and character to connect ambitious students with a top-tier research education and a vibrant, supportive campus community.
Florida State University recognizes its most accomplished students as “Student Stars.” Students are selected for this designation after achieving distinction in their academic area or following significant service to the university.
kNOw MORE
Florida State University does not tolerate sexual violence. The kNOw MORE sexual violence prevention initiative is about action, education, and the continuum of care for our students, faculty, and staff.
The custodian of public records for purposes of this section is: Office of the General Counsel, 222 South Copeland Street, Suite 424, Tallahassee, Florida 32306-1400. Public Records Requests
The State University System of Florida and its twelve public postsecondary institutions adopt this Statement on Free Expression to support and encourage full and open discourse and the robust exchange of ideas and perspectives on our respective campuses... Read the full statement: State University System Free Expression Statement
Program changes based on Florida law
Florida State University is in the process of reviewing and updating programs based on changes to Florida law. Current FSU websites may not accurately reflect the current status of all programs. We intend to have websites updated shortly.