Every cancer. Every life.
We are a leading cancer-fighting organization with a vision to end cancer as we know it, for everyone. We are improving the lives of people with cancer and their families as the only organization combating cancer through advocacy, research, and patient support, to ensure that everyone has an opportunity to prevent, detect, treat, and survive cancer.
Featured
Find resources to support caregivers.
See how cancer affects the world.
ACS ACTS helps you navigate treatment options.
Celebrate the season and honor a loved one by giving thanks with a tribute card.
Cancer Information and Resources
1 in 3 men and women will be diagnosed with cancer in their lifetime. If you’ve been recently diagnosed, or know someone who has, we’re here with answers, guidance, and support.
Services for You
The American Cancer Society offers all kinds of support for patients, families, and caregivers.
Overall Impact of the American Cancer Society
Help us end cancer as we know it, for everyone. Donate now to improve the lives of people with cancer and their families through advocacy, research, and patient support.
Help us continue our work
Risk, Prevention, and Screening
You can help reduce your risk of cancer by making healthy choices like eating right, staying active, and not smoking. It's also important to follow recommended screening guidelines, which can help detect certain cancers early.
Supporting Families and Caregivers
A cancer diagnosis affects close family and friends too. Find out what to expect if you become a caregiver for a person with cancer, and get tips for making sure that you take care of yourself as well.
Volunteer and Fundraise
We couldn’t do what we do without our volunteers, fundraisers, and donors. Together, we’re making a difference – and you can, too. Become a volunteer, make a tax-deductible donation, or participate in a fundraising event to help us save lives.
Volunteer and Fundraising Impact
Our fundraising events are key to fighting for our mission and building a supportive cancer community. Our community events and patient services are funded entirely by donations.
Participate in a Volunteer or Fundraising Activity
Research That Saves Lives
What does it take to outsmart cancer? Research. We’ve invested more than $5 billion in cancer research since 1946, all to find more – and better – treatments, uncover factors that may cause cancer, and improve cancer patients’ quality of life.
Survivor Journeys
Numbers only tell part of the story. Meet the people who are living proof of our mission.
Lastashia
Survivor, Breast Cancer
Cheryl
Survivor, Breast Cancer
Rick
Survivor, Colon & Kidney Cancer
Terry
Survivor, Colon Cancer
Victoria
Survivor, Ovarian Cancer
Sign Up for American Cancer Society Emails
Stay up-to-date with news, valuable information, and ways to get involved with the American Cancer Society.