We Believe in the Power of Quality Data to Impact Public Life
Find answers to your questions about surveys and who to contact for more information.
Census data covers dozen of topics across it's surveys and programs. Get in the weeds with more than 2.5 million tables of raw data, maps, profiles, and more at data.census.gov — the Census Bureau’s premiere data dissemination platform.
Press Release
                Business Trends and Outlook Survey Data Release — August 13, 2026
                August 13, 2026
                The Business Trends and Outlook Survey provides timely data for key economic measures and business expectations about future conditions.
                
                Business Formation Statistics Monthly Data Release  — July 2026
                August 12, 2026
                Explore timely and high frequency information on new business applications and formations.
                
                2024 County Uninsured Rate Estimates
                August 06, 2026
                New SAHIE data show uninsured rates declined in 65 counties and increased in 427 counties between 2023 and 2024.
                
                The U.S. Census Bureau Releases Schedule for IPHI
                August 04, 2026
                The Census Bureau is set to release the 2025 Income, Poverty and Health Insurance statistics from the CPS ASEC.
                
                Random Samplings Blog
                The Census Bureau Higher Education Consortium Launches
                July 23, 2026
                The CBHEC is a collaborative effort by the Census Bureau and academia to develop innovators to meet the nation’s statistical needs.
                
                We feature stories on various topics such as families, housing, employment, business, education, the economy, emergency management, and population.
Employment
                Does Using Artificial Intelligence Save Time at Work?
                August 11, 2026
                The Household Trends and Outlook Pulse Survey found that most U.S. workers who used AI at work in the last week said it saved them time.
                
                Business and Economy
                New Ways to Access One-of-a-Kind Data
                The Annual Integrated Economic Survey expands how users can access economic data by industry and geography.
                
                Population
                Measuring Foreign-Born Population Over Nation’s 250-Year History
                July 21, 2026
                Historical census data document changes in the foreign-born population in both numbers and countries of origin. 
                
                A Road Trip Across the Vacation Economy
                July 14, 2026
                The Census Bureau rings in the summer with a travel statistics road map.
                
                Health
                Where You Live Matters for Your Health and So Does How We Measure It
                July 09, 2026
                Census Bureau research helps policymakers and researchers identify the most reliable ways to predict health outcomes and distribute resources accordingly. 
                
                See today’s events below or click a date on the calendar to find upcoming virtual and in-person public events and data releases. From press conferences to webinars, workshops, seminars, and other trainings, use our calendar to find events that matter to you.