Creating Solutions for Everyone
                    Bridgeway envisions a world where all people can live to their full potential. We are compassionate, innovative and creative in providing services to the people we work with. When people look to Bridgeway, they aspire to find a better path and life, and we strive to help them achieve their goals.
                    
                    
                    
                Who We Are
                            At Bridgeway, we believe everyone has the potential to succeed. We offer effective resources and tools for individuals with disabilities, mental health challenges, substance use disorders, and other life difficulties. Making lives better through high-quality services, Bridgeway impacts thousands of people annually in over 20 counties in Illinois, offering Behavioral Health Services, Developmental and Intellectual Disabilities Services, and Affirmative Business Opportunities.
                            
                        Services
                            Led by a compassionate professional team, Bridgeway’s programs reflect the diversity of human service needs within our communities served.
                            
                        Behavioral Health
                                            Featuring a comprehensive range of services, Bridgeway's behavioral health programs are designed to promote wellness and create solutions that help individuals with behavioral health challenges. 
                                            
                                        Disability Services
                                            Offering compassionate and effective disability services to help individuals with developmental, intellectual, or physical disabilities.
                                            
                                        Affirmative Business
                                            Bridgeway's Affirmative Business Services fulfill business contracts while creating meaningful employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities.
                                            
                                        Events
                        Bridgeway interacts with our communities by offering educational and community-focused events that promote development, advocacy, resources and wellness for all. Check out Bridgeway’s featured events here.
                        
                    25
                            September
                                Friday
                                7:30am
                            Discover Wellness Summit
                            Carl Sandburg College 2400 Tom L. Wilson Blvd, Galesburg, IL 61401
                            Discover Wellness Summit Join us for a day full of inspiration, education, and fun at...
                            
                        Previous
        Next
    Donate
                            Bridgeway relies on the generosity of individuals, businesses, and organizations to continue to provide quality, person-centered services. Bridgeway Inc. is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization, allowing us to accept donations to enhance our programs. Contact us about how you can make a positive impact today!
                            
                        
            Contact Us
        
    Contact US
                                        To set up an appointment, give us a call at 309-344-2323.
If this is a crisis or a medical emergency, call 911.
All other inquiries, please fill out the form.
                                    All other inquiries, please fill out the form.