Easy to configure options, add users, and that it has two factor authentication built in. You can configure the system to allow connections on common ports so that you're able to connect from pretty much anywhere in the world.
Johnathan B.Surry Telephone
Configuring and updating my own server is super simple. In my experience, I've always had some difficulty setting up hardware VPN appliances, but OpenVPN was no-nonsense.
Alex H.DGDean
The OpenVPN Access Server AMI is a great out of the box VPN solution for your AWS VPC...
John G.Anovys, LLC
OpenVPN offers users a very simple and secure VPN option that is both economical and quick to install. Users are able to easily install it on their client devices.
Jeremy F.Intelligent Pathways
The availability of client software for all operating systems and mobile devices means my customers can connect regardless of their setup.
Josh Wc.nexgen|packaging, LLC
Excellent, flexible solution for our Azure environment.
Join thousands of organizations that trust OpenVPN for secure, high-performance remote access that adapts to your business â not the other way around.
A Virtual Private Network (VPN) provides your business with a securely encrypted internet connection (or âtunnelâ) to securely connect devices to business assets over otherwise unsecured networks. VPNs, like OpenVPN, work by masking your IP address and encrypting your internet traffic. VPN protection is an important piece of a layered security protocol thatâs essential to protecting company data as well as an employee's personal data. Using a VPN service gives you the ability to remotely access important network resources and connect your companyâs branches and locations worldwide. A zero trust VPN offers the tenets of zero trust built on the solid foundation of a VPN.
What do VPNs do?
VPNs encrypt traffic, protect privacy, and enable secure remote access. A remote access VPN connection secures your internet connection when you work off-site (e.g., coffee shop, hotel, airport, or even a different country), and routes all of your sensitive network traffic through an encrypted tunnel. Routing the network traffic disguises your IP address when using the internet, replacing it with the location and an IP address from the VPN server making its location invisible. A VPN connection also secures against external breaches.
What is a VPN server?
VPNs work by routing traffic through a private server. If you are using a self-managed VPN solution like Access Server, you can choose a physical server, or your VPN server can be hosted in cloud environments. VPN server resources can help you simplify setting up your own private server. Alternatively, you can choose a managed VPN solution, like CloudConnexa, which utilizes cloud-based servers managed by OpenVPN. In any case, the VPN will route all traffic through a server.
What does a business VPN do?
A business VPN creates a secure connection over the internet between your devices and your company's network. Essentially, a VPN creates a protected, encrypted tunnel through which your sensitive data can travel, providing protection from intruders and a virtual connection to your office network. Unlike a consumer VPN, which targets mainly personal users who are looking to protect traffic, access the internet anonymously, or possibly access resources from other regions, a business VPN is intended for remote and secure access to business resources on corporate private networks with centralized control capabilities.
What VPN should I use for my business?
OpenVPN offers two secure networking solutions for small, medium, and enterprise businesses like yours.
Access Server is best for businesses that prefer an on-prem VPN server or flexibility managing their full infrastructure through a cloud server. Choose CloudConnexa if you prefer a cloud-delivered, managed service.
Our product comparison can help you choose the right solution for your business.
OpenVPN offers up to 5 free seats and a free trial for CloudConnexa, and 2 free connections for Access Server. This makes it possible to use a free VPN for small teams. Teams will have full functionality of OpenVPN with both the free trial and the free connections.
What is a Zero Trust VPN?
A Zero Trust VPN uses a VPN as the foundation of zero trust network access. Access Server and CloudConnexa can be used to implement a zero trust network access solution that secures your network resources while limiting access to only what is necessary.
What is Zero Trust Network Access (ZTNA)?
According to Gartner, âZero trust network access (ZTNA) is a product or service that creates an identity- and context-based, logical access boundary around an application or set of applications.â Doing this hides the apps from discovery and restricts access using a trust broker and a set of named entities. The broker verifies users based on identity, context, and policies â and stops lateral movement in the network. Because application assets are removed from public visibility, potential attack surface is reduced.
ZTNA also relies on least privilege access, which means that employees should only have access to the programs and applications that are necessary to do their jobs. Using a VPN, you can enforce the tenets of ZTNA and build the foundation for the principle of least privilege.
Where can I find information on OpenVPNâs pricing?
OpenVPN has transparent, flexible pricing that fits all budgets. Starting at just $7 per connection per month, you can see a customized price based on your business size here.
Does OpenVPN allow cancellation without notice?
You can cancel your subscription at any time and unused funds will be credited to your account for future usage. For refunds, contact sales@openvpn.net.
Where can I learn about OpenVPNâs compliance and security measures?