This is the home web site of tcpdump,
a powerful command-line packet analyzer; and
libpcap, a portable C/C++ library for
network traffic capture.
Here you can find the latest stable version
of tcpdump and libpcap, as well as
current development versions, a complete
documentation, and information about how to report
bugs or contribute patches.
Documentation
The man pages and other documentation within releases and
current development versions usually
contain the most up to date information. Below you can find
online versions of some of these documents, as well as tutorials and
in-depth papers written by various authors.
tcpdump
The most useful for tcpdump users:
tcpdump(1) and
pcap-filter(7)
man pages.
BPF Exam is an online tool for Berkeley
Packet Filter bytecode visualization. It allows to specify various
filter compilation parameters and produces the results in several
output formats.
BPF Simulator is
another BPF visualization tool. It allows to see how the same filter
program applies to several packets.
This tcpdump release makes various improvements and bug fixes
available whilst the work on tcpdump 5.0 is still in progress.
This release requires libpcap 1.10.5 or later to pass all test cases.
This libpcap release makes various improvements and bug fixes
available whilst the work on libpcap 1.11 is still in progress.
Among other things this includes the fixes to two vulnerabilities
(CVE-2025-11961 discovered by Jin Wei, Kunwei Qian and Ping Chen,
and CVE-2025-11964 discovered by Aniruddhan Murali, Noble Saji
Mathews, Mahmoud Alfadel, Mei Nagappan and Meng Xu).
Current Development Versions
The current development versions are freely accessible
through the GitHub Git
hosting site
(tcpdump,
libpcap).
You can clone these repositories with the following commands:
A read-only git mirror of all project repositories is available
here in case anyone needs it.
After cloning the git repositories you can configure and compile the
source via either GNU Autoconf or CMake. There is various
continuous integration involved in the
development process.
Mailing List
tcpdump-workers
This list is focused on development, it
also receives announcements.
You can subscribe
here
or by sending an e-mail to
tcpdump-workers-request@lists.tcpdump.org
with the word "subscribe"
as body and subject. A list archive, dating back to 2002-10-01, can
be found here,
and an archive dating back to 1999-10-18 can be found
here.
Posts to this list must originate from the
subscriber's address.
If you want to contribute, please subscribe to the
tcpdump-workers mailing
list. It's a good idea to discuss bugfixes and new
feature additions in advance, because the changes
may have bigger implications than you think and
your patch may not get accepted.
License
tcpdump and libpcap are under a
3-clauseBSD license.
While the current authors have no objection to converting to a
2-clause
BSD license, the number of contributors that would need
to agree makes this change unpracticable.