of Clean Energy
Uncompromised Performance.
Performance & Reliability.
extreme-duty performance where it matters most.
with Smart Power Solutions.
efficiency, extending range, and reducing charging times.
Toshiba America | Energy, Industrial, and Electronics Solutions
About Toshiba AMERICA
Toshiba specializes in providing comprehensive Energy, Industrial, and Electronics Solutions across the Americas.
From Power Generation to Decarbonization: Toshiba Leads the Way
Anchoring the power generation capabilities of our Energy, Industrial, and Electronics Solutions, Toshiba America Energy Systems (TAES) focuses on advanced power generation and decarbonization. We provide technical services for installed energy equipment while pioneering carbon-neutral technologies—including hydrogen, carbon capture, and next-generation geothermal. From thermal and nuclear to hydro power, TAES is building a reliable path forward.
Discover how we’re shaping the energy landscape for a cleaner planet.
Driving Sustainability: Toshiba's Industrial and Infrastructure Innovations
Spearheading the manufacturing and infrastructure side of our Energy, Industrial, and Electronics Solutions, Toshiba International Corporation (TIC) delivers technologies for a resilient future. We maximize efficiency with high-performance motors, hybrid vehicle systems, and power electronics like UPS and solar inverters. From sustainable transportation to water treatment, TIC provides the innovation and reliability that powers modern industry.
Discover how we’re revolutionizing industrial solutions and infrastructure for a better future.
Empowering the Future: Semiconductor & Data Innovations
Defining the technological edge of our Energy, Industrial, and Electronics Solutions, Toshiba America Electronic Components (TAEC) leads in semiconductors and data storage. Our energy-efficient power devices—including Si, SiC, and GaN—and high-capacity hard disk drives support a rapidly developing AI world. From automotive to industrial applications, we deliver the technology driving modern innovation.
Discover how we’re leading the semiconductor revolution for a smarter, more sustainable future.
newsroom
 Toshiba America
 Newsroom 
 Read the latest news and announcements about North American product and service solutions.
Domtar and Toshiba Help Retailers Advance Sustainability with Qualified Receipt Printing Solutions
Toshiba Starts Shipping Engineering Samples of TXZ+™ Family Entry‑Class M4V Group, Standard Microcontrollers with Arm® Cortex®‑M4 Core for System Control Applications
Quantum Corridor, Ciena, and Toshiba Complete World’s First 1.6 Tb/s Quantum-Safe Optical Encryption Milestone on Live Commercial Network
Toshiba Starts Mass Production of Compact Microcontrollers with Arm® Cortex®‑M4 Core for Single-Motor Control Applications
Toshiba/NSTA ExploraVision
We’re celebrating the 33rd Anniversary of ExploraVision—the world’s largest K-12 STEM competition.
clip
Toshiba Clip
Your gateway to Toshiba’s Business, technologies, latest projects, and the people that make it happen!
We are Toshiba: Do the Right Thing and Embrace Integrity in Every Action to Build the Foundation for the Future – A Leader’s Journey, Upholding the Toshiba Spirit
Mr. Chok Liongmeng leads the Energy Infrastructure Systems (EIS) Division at Toshiba Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. (TAPL), the regional headquarters…
2026/29/06
Inside HDD Manufacturing Powering the AI Era: Meet the People Driving Innovation
Hard disk drives (HDDs) have been widely used as storage devices for personal computers since the 1980s. In recent years,…
2026/20/05
Achieving Security and Trust—In Space. Toshiba Europe’s Cambridge Research Laboratory Takes on the Challenge of Global Quantum-Safe Communications
Financial systems, critical infrastructure, and medical services all rely on unseen layers of cryptographic technology to keep our essential data…
2026/24/04
About Toshiba America Foundation
At Toshiba America Foundation (TAF), we are passionate about fueling the innovative ideas of educators in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) subjects. Our grants are designed to support the creative projects and material needs of teachers, enabling them to bring a dynamic and creative approach to STEM education in their classrooms.