Research That Moves the World Forward
Featured News
CMU and Our Nation’s Military: A Unique and Historic Partnership
For more than a century, Carnegie Mellon University has partnered with the U.S. military to advance innovation, education and workforce readiness. From wartime training to today’s leadership in AI, robotics and data science, CMU continues to help develop the talent and technologies needed to meet evolving national security challenges.
Faculty Who Are Leaders in Their Fields
                My dream would be that we get these vehicles miniaturized to such an extent that you can have someone pull out a handful of drones, throw them, have them quickly search a cave or disaster scenario and collaboratively build a map of the scene.
Wennie Tabib
Systems Scientist at CMU’s Resilient Intelligent Systems Lab
+ Faculty
Our professors bring their expertise to classrooms and labs, mentoring students and advancing research across disciplines.
+ Members
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra musicians serve as distinguished faculty in our School of Music to inspire the next generation of talent.
Nobel Prizes
Our faculty and alumni have received this prestigious award, widely recognized as one of the highest honors an individual can receive, in 5 of the 6 possible categories.
The Birthplace of AI
Carnegie Mellon University has been at the forefront of artificial intelligence since its early days, helping to shape the field through bold ideas, pioneering research and visionary leadership. From founding key institutions to launching entirely new areas of study, CMU has played a central role in advancing computing and AI. Today, our work continues to drive innovation and make a lasting impact across industries and society.
Academics at CMU
Academics at CMU connects classroom learning with cutting-edge research and world-renowned faculty to shape the world’s brightest minds. Students collaborate across disciplines to drive progress in technology, policy, the arts and beyond.
          
            What I love most about the College of Engineering is that everyone you meet carries a genuine passion for making the world a better place.
Shagun Maheshwari
Materials Science Engineering Graduate, Class of 2025
          
            At the end of the day, I want to be someone who is helping people in a way that has the broadest impact possible.
Lameck Beni
Graduate Student and Rales Fellow
          
            Before hearing about CMU, I didn't think it was possible to pursue and thrive in such unrelated fields together. I've learned to use my concentrations to help one another succeed.
Roy Huang
Recent BXA Graduate