amos wenger · they/them
French/Swiss enby making videos about Rust, how computers work, and whatever strikes my fancy.
I’m loud about mental health and excellence in software engineering.
This year, I’m focused on making builds faster and applied ML in the field of linguistics (ASR, TTS etc.)
You can find me on BlueSky, YouTube, or various European Rust conferences.
what i'm working on
latest article
2025 Recap: so many projects
I’ve been working on so many projects in 2025, I thought it was important for me to make a recap, if only just to clear my head. There are many, many, many things to go through and we don’t have a ...
all articles →
talks
upcoming
- upcoming EuroRust 2026 Oct 14–17 · Barcelona
- upcoming RustLab 2026 Nov 1–3 · Bologna
- online P99 CONF online
recorded
find me
writing
2025 Recap: so many projects
I’ve been working on so many projects in 2025, I thought it was important for me to make a recap, if only just to clear my head. There are many, many, many things to go through and we don’t have a ...
Introducing arborium, a tree-sitter distribution
About two weeks ago I entered a discussion with the docs.rs team about, basically, why we have to look at this: When we could be looking at this: And of course, as always, there are reasons why thi...
Does Dioxus spark joy?
Note: this article is adapted from a presentation I gave at a Rust Paris Meetup — that’s why it sounds a little different than usual. Enjoy! Good evening! Tonight, I will attempt to answer the ques...
Engineering a Rust optimization quiz
There are several Rust quizzes online, including one that’s literally called the “Unfair Rust Quiz” at https://this.quiz.is.fckn.gay/, but when I was given the opportunity to record an episode of t...
Making our own spectrogram
A couple months ago I made a loudness meter and went way too in-depth into how humans have measured loudness over time. Today we’re looking at a spectrogram visualization I made, which is a lot mor...
crates.io phishing attempt
Earlier this week, an npm supply chain attack. It’s turn for crates.io, the main public repository for Rust crates (packages). The phishing e-mail looks like this: And it leads to a GitHub login pa...
color npm package compromised
On September 8 2025, around 13:00 UTC, someone compromised Josh Junon’s npm account (qix) and started publishing backdoored versions of his package. Someone noticed and let Josh know: Josh confirme...
The science of loudness
My watch has a “Noise” app: it shows , for decibels. My amp has a volume knob, which also shows decibels, although.. negative ones, this time. And finally, my video editing software has a ton of me...
Summer fasterthanlime update
There are news! TL;DR: If you’re a patron or sponsor, check your Profile page to get detailed explainers of every perk. You’ll need to log in. Duh. Here are all the changes I’m implementing, summar...