AI Offers Lifeline to Developing Economies
            
            Artificial Intelligence Offers Lifeline to Developing Economies
            The 2026 World Development Report shows how AI could boost growth—if countries act now
            
            See Report
            
            
            Top
            eager
            
          Turning Creativity into Jobs and Investment
            - immersive story
Turning Creativity into Jobs and Investment
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
          Digital Access is Transforming the Pacific Islands
            - immersive story
Digital Access is Transforming the Pacific Islands
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
          Investing in Youth Across East Asia and Pacific
            - immersive story
Investing in Youth Across East Asia and Pacific
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
          OUR PRIORITIES
lp-heading-bottom-xlarge
          Data for Development
          Essential data to guide decisions, monitor progress, and evaluate impact.
- people
3.4
            additional jobs are created in related industries for every job in the health sector.
            
            Source: World Bank Health Works
            true
            
            Think this information from World Bank Group is useful
          - prosperity
10 percent
            of global gross domestic product in 2024 came from travel and tourism.
            
            Source: World Travel & Tourism Council
            true
            
            Think this information from World Bank Group is useful
          - infrastructure
9 in 10
            people without electricity today live in Sub-Saharan Africa.
            
            Source: 2026 Atlas of Global Development
            true
            
            Think this information from World Bank Group is useful
          STAY CURRENT WITH OUR LATEST
          DATA & INSIGHTS
          true
          WBG External Corporate English Newsletter|wbg-svc-ext-corp-eng-nl
          false
          RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS
More Research & Publications
          default
          Regional Economic Updates
            Regional Economic Updates - April 2026
            Key macroeconomic trends and developments across six regions.
            
            See all the Reports
            
            
            
            
            
          Global Economic Prospects Report - June 2026
            Global Economic Prospects Report - June 2026
            As the Middle East conflict drives sharp energy price increases, global growth is projected to slow to 2.5 percent in 2026.
            
            Read Full Report
            
            
            
            
            
          Default alt
          THE POWER OF PURPOSE
The world’s challenges are bigger than one project, one country, or even one World Bank Group. That’s why we’re pairing 80 years of experience with renewed focus. To move faster. Work smarter. With more partners. And to create jobs that empower people and grow economies.
          TRANSFORMING KNOWLEDGE TRANSFORMING LIVES
Trusted data, insights, and education to help organizations, practitioners, and global leaders deliver impactful policies and projects at scale.
          lp-heading-bottom-xlarge
          Default alt
          World Bank Group Academy
One-of-a-kind capacity development and training for next-generation leaders.
World Bank Group Scorecard
Easy-to-understand indicators and data that measure progress and impact.
EMPOWERING PEOPLE & COUNTRIES TO MAKE PROGRESS
          Growing Jobs, Protecting Forests: A Decade of Transformational Change in the Amazon
            
            Prosperity
            
            
            
            
            
            
          From Classrooms to Careers: Guyana’s Youth Gain Skills for Real Jobs in Growing Industries
            
            Guyana’s Youth Gain Skills for Real Job
            
            
            
            
            
            
          Artificial Intelligence in Action in Latin America’s Schools
            
            PARTNER WITH THE WORLD BANK GROUP
We work with local partners and global partners. Because with more resources, we can accomplish more.
          lp-heading-bottom-none