Welcome to Delaware
DE Schools
                    Find your school's website
State Agencies
                    OPEN
Air Quality
                    No Warnings
Flag Status
                    FULL STAFF
Featured Highlights
DHSS / DSS Urge SNAP Program Clients to Take Action to Protect EBT Benefits from Theft
Delaware's Division of Social Services reminds Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) clients to take steps to protect their EBT cards and benefits from theft following increased incidents of EBT fraud and benefits theft.
Learn how you can protect your SNAP benefits.
The Division of Small Business Launches Office of Small Business Access, Announces Listening Tours in July and August
Delaware's Division of Small Business (DSB) has launched the new Office of Small Business Access (OSBA). OSBA provides a single point of contact to help entrepreneurs navigate state government and connect with resources needed to start, grow, and succeed. With the launch of OSBA, business owners can now report regulatory, licensing, and permitting challenges as well as request assistance at business.delaware.gov/osba. Established by Governor Matt Meyer through Executive Order 21, OSBA is a central hub for identifying resources for small businesses.
Learn more about the new Office of Small Business Access (OSBA).
Brandywine Zoo Adds Year-round Mixed Species Exhibit
The Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control (DNREC) in conjunction with the Delaware Zoological Society unveil a new year-round exhibit at the Brandywine Zoo called "Hidden Falls" and includes a 320-square-foot outdoor area and an indoor building that is climate-controlled for year-round use and animal observation. The exhibit features five species of animals which include common squirrel monkeys, a prehensile-tail porcupine, Patagonian mara, green iguana and red-footed tortoises.
Experience Brandywine Zoo's Year-round Mixed Species Exhibit.
Join Our Team
Work in State Government.
Search or browse available State Jobs in Delaware.
Popular Topics:
Introducing Go DE
Latest News
from news.delaware.gov
Public Meetings
from agencies and boards
Subscribe
updates on various platforms
Committed to Transparency
Discover and explore Delaware's open data today!
Total Government Datasets:
Review, research, monitor, and interact with Delaware's transparency resources.
This is Your Government
Branches of Delaware Government
Find My Legislator
Statewide Elected Officials
Governor Matt Meyer
Governor Matt Meyer was sworn in on January 21st, 2025. He serves as Delaware's 76th Governor.
Attorney General Kathy Jennings
Attorney General Kathy Jennings was sworn in on January 1st, 2019 and serves as Delaware’s 46th Attorney General.
Insurance Commissioner Trinidad Navarro
A lifelong Delawarean, Commissioner Navarro has an extensive record of public service and is committed to protecting Delaware consumers.