Akademy is the annual world summit of KDE, one of the largest Free Software communities in the world. It is a free, non-commercial event organized by the KDE Community. This year we will celebrate the 30th years of KDE in Graz.
What is KDE?
An international community developing the worldâs finest free and open-source software.
KDEâs software powers NASA, CERN, Mercedes electric vehicles, the Steam Deck, your favorite YouTuber, and schools, governments, and offices throughout the world.
Our software breathes new life into old devices, and turbo-charges new ones. Anyone is welcome to use our software for free, or to help build it!
Plasma
Plasma is KDE's flagship product, offering the most customizable desktop environment available. The KDE community has the driving goal of making it simple by default, and powerful when needed.
KDE Applications
Powerful, multi-platform, and for everyone
Use KDE software to surf the web, keep in touch with colleagues, friends and family, manage your files, enjoy music and videos; and get creative and productive at work. The KDE community develops and maintains more than 200 applications which run on any Linux desktop, and often other platforms too.
Kontact
Simplify your workflow by managing emails, calendars, tasks, and contacts seamlessly in one powerful application.
Kdenlive
Bring your video projects to life with Kdenlive, the open-source editor packed with powerful tools, effects, and transitions.
GCompris
Engage young minds with GCompris, an extensive educational suite packed with fun and interactive activities for children aged 2 to 10.
For You
We develop KDE for everyone, from kids to grandparents and from professionals to hobbyists.
Devices
Buy a computer with Plasma preinstalled
Kubuntu Focus
Kubuntu Focus optimizes the OS for the hardware so you don't have to. Save time with dozens of powerful tools and comprehensive guides.
Steam Deck
The Steam Deck is a portable console that runs the latest AAA games with the flexibility of a full PC.
Tuxedo Computers
Customizable Plasma-based notebooks and desktop computers optimized for tailor-made hardware.
KDE Slimbook
The Slimbook is a shiny, sleek and good looking laptop that can do any task thanks to its powerful AMD Ryzen processor.
Other hardware manufacturers are selling devices with Plasma. See all devices
Announcements
KDE Ships Frameworks 6.29.0
KDE today announces the release of KDE Frameworks 6.29.0. Read More
KDE Plasma 6.7.4, Bugfix Release for August
Today KDE releases a bugfix update to KDE Plasma 6. Read More
KDE Plasma 6.7.3, Bugfix Release for July
Today KDE releases a bugfix update to KDE Plasma 6. Read More
KDE Ships Frameworks 6.28.0
KDE today announces the release of KDE Frameworks 6.28.0. Read More
KDE Eco
Join the sustainable software movement
Software has a direct effect on energy and resource consumption. KDE has the goal of providing software which does this in a way that reduces software's environmental impact.
Letâs make energy efficient software and digital sustainability part of our community. We can live up to our responsibility for this and future generations!
Community
Next Events
IFBA - KDE's Birthday Party
Celebrate the 30th years of KDE with the Linux community of Salvador (Brazil).
Parinux - KDE's Birthday Party
Celebrate the 30th years of KDE with the Linux community of Paris (France).
Instituto Gunga / Calango Hacker Clube - KDE's Birthday Party
Celebrate the 30th years of KDE with the Linux community of Brasilia (Brazil).