Take action for our world
About WWF
Founded in Switzerland, April 1961
Active in the UK and nearly 100 countries
Over 1.4 million UK supporters
We are WWF, the leading global environmental charity, and we’re bringing our world back to life.
Nature is in crisis. Wildlife is declining, habitats are disappearing, and climate change is reshaping the planet. We’re tackling the root causes of nature loss and climate change, so people and nature can thrive together. This demands conservation at scale and major changes to the systems that drive destruction. It’s a huge challenge, but there is still time to turn things around. Working globally with governments, businesses, partners and communities, we’re focused on achieving three key outcomes.
Making our world work for nature
Our food and finance systems should help restore nature, not destroy it.
Food production is the biggest driver of nature loss and a major source of global greenhouse gas emissions. We’re working to reduce deforestation, transform supply chains, and show how farming can benefit nature, people and climate.
We’re also pushing for global finance systems to make sustainable choices the norm.
Bringing nature back from the brink
Working with Indigenous people and local communities, we’re protecting and restoring threatened species and wild places.
From forests and rivers to oceans and polar regions, we’re restoring habitats, reconnecting landscapes, and tackling the pressures driving their decline. We’re also urgently addressing the threats to our precious wildlife, helping protect endangered species – from tigers and elephants to gorillas, penguins and polar bears.
Growing love and support for nature
Change is powered by people like you.
Through schools, partners and campaigns, we're reaching new audiences and inspiring action. We’re helping people reconnect with nature, building a growing community of engaged supporters. Because when more people speak-up for nature and climate, decision-makers listen.
Together, we can bring our world back to life.
Join actor, presenter, and WWF ambassador, Cel Spellman as he discovers how every one of us can make a difference in the fight to save our planet.
In each episode, Cel meets a familiar face from the worlds of sport or entertainment, and teams up with a top wildlife expert to dig deeper into the threats we’re facing. What’s the real impact of climate change, single use plastic, food choice or fast fashion on our planet? And most importantly of all: what can we do to help?