In-store appointmentsMobile devices for business + consumerResidential: Internet + TV + PhoneBusiness: Internet + TV + PhoneMobile repairsFibe TV live demoBell Trade-in programChinese Support華語服務Hindi | Punjabi SupportSign Language Interpreter
With SmartPay for 24 months and Flex Option, on a 2-year Ultra plan when you trade in an iPhone 14 Pro Max 256 GB. In-store only.2 One-time device handling charge ($40) applies.3
We are actively monitoring the spread of wildfires throughout Ontario. Our teams are working to mitigate the impacts of fires to keep our customers connected. Learn more
We are actively monitoring the spread of wildfires throughout Ontario. Our teams are working to mitigate the impacts of fires to keep our customers connected. Learn more
Price based on the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip8. With SmartPay for 24 months and Flex Option, on a 2-year Ultra plan, when you trade in a Samsung Galaxy Z Flip6 256 GB.4 In-store only. One-time device handling charge ($40) applies.3
Behind every search for a burgundy binder is Bell Pure Fibre Internet.
From 65 dollras per month
From $65/mo.
When paired with an eligible Mobility plan.6 Not a Mobility customer? Pay just $75/mo. for 2 years.
With a 2-year Internet term and Autopay credit.footnote ∇
We believe connectivity should do more than power screens – it should bring people closer. Every day, we strive to enable the authentic moments that matter.
New! Canada’s most reliable Internet.7
Bell Pure Fibre Internet has been named Canada’s most reliable Internet7 by Opensignal, strengthening Bell’s position as the country’s most awarded Internet provider and setting the standard for reliability, consistency and speed nationwide. For the fourth consecutive year, Bell Pure Fibre also ranks as Canada’s fastest Internet8 based on Ookla® Speedtest Intelligence data. Combined with nPerf’s #1 ranking for streaming performance and BrandSpark’s most trusted ISP award9, Bell stands as Canada’s most awarded Internet provider.
Bell continues to lead Canada’s wireless industry, earning top honours for both 5G+ and 5G data speeds. Rohde & Schwarz has certified Bell as Canada’s fastest 5G+ network,10 and Ookla® Speedtest Intelligence® data confirms Bell outperforms all other national networks in 5G speeds.11 These achievements underscore our continued commitment to delivering world-class network performance and keeping Canadians connected to what matters most.
® Aeroplan is a registered trademark of Aeroplan® Inc., used under license.
Based on 5G/5G+ Network Performance Score, calculated by Rohde & Schwarz from data collected in Canada comparing data-only performance of other national wireless networks in 2026. 5G+ results are defined as connectivity while actively using 3500 MHz / 3800 MHz spectrum. See bell.ca/5G.
Must trade in a iPhone 14 Pro Max 256 GB in pristine condition to be eligible for the full $360 credit. With a new activation. Taxes extra. Purchase financing provided by Bell on approved credit; cost of borrowing is $0. If you end your agreement early, your remaining device payments ($600) and the agreement credit balance, as applicable, will become due immediately. The device must be returned in good working condition. If you choose to keep the device after 2 years, the deferred amount will be billed in installments over 12 months. Requires an eligible Bell rate plan. Must be 18 years or older and legal owner of the device traded in. Max one (1) device per trade-in. Device must power on and be functional. See bell.ca/tradein for details. If you upgrade early, your remaining device payments and agreement credit balance, as applicable, will become due immediately, as well as any deferred amount.
A one-time device handling charge ($40) will be applied to your next bill to cover fulfillment costs associated with your device order. Additional one-time fees are subject to change over time. See bell.ca/onetimefees for details.
Must trade in a Samsung Galaxy Z Flip6 256 GB in pristine condition to be eligible for the full $480 credit. With a new activation. Taxes extra. Purchase financing provided by Bell on approved credit; cost of borrowing is $0. If you end your agreement early, your remaining device payments ($600) and the agreement credit balance, as applicable, will become due immediately. The device must be returned in good working condition. If you choose to keep the device after 2 years, the deferred amount will be billed in installments over 12 months. Requires an eligible Bell rate plan. Must be 18 years or older and legal owner of the device traded in. Max one (1) device per trade-in. Device must power on and be functional. See bell.ca/tradein for details. If you upgrade early, your remaining device payments and agreement credit balance, as applicable, will become due immediately, as well as any deferred amount.
$100 Prepaid Mastercard® available to customers who order Internet. Service must be installed within 30 days of order. Customer must continuously subscribe to eligible services and have an account in good standing for 60 days following installation, after which an email is sent to register to redeem the card. Within 30 days of receipt of the registration email, customer must register online to receive the card. Customer will receive card by mail within 4–6 weeks. One card per account. Card is issued by Pathward®, N.A., Member FDIC, pursuant to license by Mastercard International Incorporated. Mastercard and the circles design are registered trademarks of Mastercard International Incorporated. No cash access or recurring payments. Card valid for up to 6 or 24 months; unused funds will forfeit after the valid thru date. Card terms and conditions apply.
Credit earned at end of full billing periods. Available to new residential customers and Bell Mobility customers (new or existing) with an account in good standing in Ontario, who continuously subscribe to an eligible Internet package and eligible Mobility services with a plan of minimum $25/mo. (excluding Tablets, Small Business, EPP and prepaid plans), where access/technology permit. Subject to change without notice; not combinable with other offers. Taxes extra. Customer must opt to receive paperless billing. Customer must have the same name on both Internet and Mobility accounts to be eligible for the offer. Credit will appear on Internet bill. One credit per account. Customer must consolidate their services at one address and in One Bill. Any change made to services may affect the price and/or result in the loss of credits or promotions, as the case may be, as eligibility conditions may vary.
Based on Ookla® Speedtest Intelligence® data, 1H 2026. All rights reserved.
Voted most trusted High Speed Internet Provider for Wi-Fi Performance/Wi-Fi Connectivity brand by Canadian consumers based on the 2025 BrandSpark® Canadian Trust Study.
Based on 5G/5G+ Network Performance Score, calculated by Rohde & Schwarz from data collected in Canada comparing data-only performance of other national wireless networks in 2026. 5G+ results are defined as connectivity while actively using 3500 MHz / 3800 MHz spectrum. See bell.ca/5G.
Based on Ookla® Speedtest Intelligence® data, 1H 2026. All rights reserved.
Bell 5G+ Advanced is now rolling out across the Greater Toronto and Hamilton Area, including Toronto, Mississauga, Brampton, Hamilton, Niagara, and other locations. Compatible with the latest devices from Apple, Google and Samsung when updated with the latest software. See coverage.
Our services
Bell Canada
Bell is Canada's largest communications company, providing consumers and business with solutions for all their communications needs.
The leader in digital TV
Bell Fibe TV provides 4K picture and high-fidelity sound. Using fibre optic technology, Bell Fibe TV brings the TV experience right to your door – no dish required.
The Bell Fibe TV app lets you access live TV and on-demand television content using your Bell Streamer or by downloading the Fibe TV app on Amazon Fire TV, Android TV, Apple TV or by Google Cast using your Google Chromecast.
Bell Satellite TV provides a great variety of HD and 4K channels, the best receivers and the best image quality – making it the leader in digital satellite TV service in Canada.
The latest cell phones, Mobile Internet devices, smartwatches and tablets
Command the fastest upload speeds with Bell Fibe Internet on Canada’s largest fibre optic network. Bell's high-speed home Internet lets you share photos and videos with upload speeds of up to 940 Mbps and download speeds of up to 3 Gigabits per second.
The most reliable home phone service
If you are looking for reliable home phone services, Bell Home phone guarantees exceptional services at all times or you get your money back.
As Canada's leading trusted technology advisor, Bell Canada delivers end-to-end solutions to our small and medium-sized business (SMB) customers, from business Internet to business Mobility services and long distance solutions.
Bell Business Markets is committed to delivering the integrated solutions large organizations need to increase productivity, sustain profitable growth, maximize service differentiation and minimize risk in today's challenging environment.