Who We Are
                        Founded in Brussels in 1983, CEPS is a leading think tank and forum for debate on EU affairs, with an exceptionally strong in-house research capacity and an extensive network of partner institutes throughout the world.
                Latest expert opinion
            
            
                439 Article in Brief
            
        Our expert commentaries offer timely and succinct analysis of current events and opinion on the key developments in Europe
04 Aug 2026
                        
                        
                        
                        On 30 July, between 50 000 and 60 000 people tried to reach the Spanish enclave of Ceuta in North Africa. At least…
16 Jul 2026
                        
                        
                        
                        There isn’t one China, but de facto two, and both are now very different countries, with some common cultural traits…
10 Jul 2026
                        
                        
                        
                        Financial markets price all kinds of risks. But there’s one they ignore: how nature loss affects governments’ ability to pay…
            Our Research
        
        
        
            3822 Published Publications
        CEPS produces research papers and reports on current and upcoming policy challenges. Browse through the latest publications on the right or click to view all our publications.
                Discussions and Exchanges
            
            
                1614 Organized Events
            
        CEPS organises various types of events for its members and the public. Browse through the forthcoming events below or click on the button to view all our events.
0
                                    
                CEPS Videos
            
                    A selection of some of our latest videos. You can find more on our youtube channel.
Our latest videos could not be loaded from YouTube at this time. Please visit our YouTube channel directly.
                Our Activities
            
            
                466 Activities
            
        Through our project exchanges and collaborative Task Force work, we share our research and policy analysis and offer potential solutions for EU policymaking.
                                            28 May 2026 - 30 Nov 2026                                        
                                    
                                    
                Membership
            
            
                253 Members
            
        The challenges facing Europe have never been so great … nor the stakes so high. Join CEPS and make a vital contribution to the debate.
Designed for multinational corporations and other large and medium-sized companies, our corporate membership gives access to state-of-the-art research and participation in a dynamic forum for networking and exchanging ideas.
CEPS offers its institutional membership to diplomatic missions and embassies, trade associations, NGOs, universities and regional offices.
Designed for national authorities, ministries, permanent representations and embassies working on EU affairs, our government membership provides access to independent research and participation in a trusted forum for policy dialogue, networking and the exchange of ideas.