For hundreds of students from Caltech and universities around the country, a summer internship at Jet Propulsion Laboratory offers more than a glimpse of science and engineering. It's a chance to play an active role in discovery and exploration. This program has created a talent ecosystem whose influence reaches from the frontiers of quantum physics to the halls of NASA.
A new framework offered by Anima Anandkumar and colleagues from NVIDIA provides a way to modify existing neural network architectures to work more naturally with the physical world
Nayla Abney took a chance leaving New Jersey and the East Coast to come to Caltech. She helped launch the inaugural season for women's soccer at Caltech in 2017 and says the sport and the team teach lessons that help her in the classroom and on the field. The chemical engineering major is inspired by the researchers and professors on campus, and she is committed to building a legacy for other young women at Caltech.
For as long as he can remember, David Ignacio Fager has adored mathematics. In high school, he lived for Mu Alpha Theta competitions and skipped ahead in math textbooks the way impatient readers sometimes peek at the last page of a mystery novel. Then came freshman year of college, and Caltech’s social science core introduced him to a new love: economics.
Bren Professor of Psychology, Neuroscience, and Biology
Ralph Adolphs
Since his years as a Caltech graduate student, Ralph Adolphs (PhD ’93) has wanted to learn how the biological brain produces the intangible mind, what the mind’s basic elements are, and how the two influence each other.
Katherine de Kleer uses a diverse range of telescopes to observe planets and their moons at radio, infrared, and optical wavelengths. Her innovative approaches for studying this wide swath of frequencies have helped shed light on the seasonal evolution of planetary atmospheres.
Caltech does not discriminate or permit discrimination by any member of its community on the basis of sex, race, color, religion, national origin, citizenship, ancestry, age, marital status, physical or mental disability, medical condition, genetic information, pregnancy or perceived pregnancy, gender, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic or condition protected by state and federal law.
It is Caltech's policy to provide a work and academic environment free of discrimination as required by federal and state law and to provide equal opportunity in matters of employment and in education programs, services, and activities, including the administration of its admissions policies and other university-administered activities, programs, or funds.