Kodi is the ultimateentertainment center
Kodi brings your media to life with endless features, a beautiful interface, and ease of use.
There is anAdd-on for that
Kodi has a giant catalog of community add-ons available for you to customize and tweak your perfect entertainment setup.
Kodi has a communitylike no other
Our forum is overflowing with questions, answers, tips, and guides from people all over the globe.
Are you a developer?Join the team!
We would welcome anyone who is willing to do their part on any improvement that is needed.
Got a smart TV? You ain't seen nothin' yet!
Kodi puts your smart TV to shame. Kodi plays almost every kind of media you can find and looks great while doing it! Here are just a few things Kodi excels at:
Music
Your music collection has never looked this good! Support for almost every format, playlists, party mixes and more.
Movies
So much better than a pile of DVDs on a shelf. Kodi brings your movie collection to life with artwork, cast, genres and more.
TV Shows
Perfect for binge watching or the occasional catch up on your favourite show. Kodi keeps all your TV organised like nothing else.
Photos
Kodi is the best way to share your photos on the biggest screen in the house with a personal slideshow.
PVR
Kodi allows you to watch and record live TV all from an easy to use interface. It works with a number of popular backends including MediaPortal, MythTV, NextPVR, Tvheadend and many more.
Games
Kodi isn't just for passive entertainment media. You can also play games on Kodi. Pick from a large number of emulators, or even play a stand-alone game. There's even extensive support for game controllers.
But wait, there's more!
You can get a new skin to change the look of Kodi, or maybe you want to stream your favourite internet radio station and control it all with your web browser or mobile phone? This and so much more is all possible and easy with Kodi.
Kodi runs on just about anything
- Windows
- Linux
- Android
- Raspberry Pi
- webOS
- macOS, iOS, tvOS
News
What's new in the world of Kodi
You can organize media you own and have rights to with no extra cost.
Vital statistics
Users and members of the community contribute to Kodi in so many different ways.
- GitHub Commits
- 0
- Forum Conversations
- 300,932
- Official Add-ons
- 1,042