IT
EN
ES
BR
DE
FR
中国
Stories
Stories
Road
Racing Spot
Life
Road overview
Car
Motorcycles
Bicycles
Racing Spot overview
Formula 1
Rally
Gran Turismo
Superbike
Sailing
Cycling
Other Competitions
E-sport
Life overview
Sustainability
People
Pirelli Calendar
Lifestyle
Innovation
back
Products
Products
Car Tyres
Moto Tyres
Bike Tyres
Car Tyres overview
Moto Tyres overview
Bike Tyres overview
back
Lifestyle
Lifestyle
Pirelli Lifestyle Collection
Pirelli Lifestyle Collection overview
back
About
About
Contact us
Archive
Pirelli in Brief
What we do
Pirelli's history
Management
Pirelli Headquarters
Corporate Culture
Our commitment in art
CERT Pirelli
Total Efficiency 4.0
SUPPLIER'S AREA
Consumer tyres
OEM partnerships
Racing
Research & Development
Indietro
Indietro
Indietro
Sustainability
Sustainability
Archive
Pirelli's Model
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Sustainability Policies
Materiality
Sustainability Plan & Targets
Main performance indicators
REPORTING
CDP climate change
The Values and Ethical Code
Social Responsibility Policy for Occupational Health, Safety and Rights, and Environment
Global Human Rights Policy
Health, Safety and Environment Policy
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Product Stewardship Policy
Quality Policy
Green Sourcing Policy
Supplier Code of Conduct
Sustainable Natural Rubber Policy
Code of Conduct
Anti-Corruption Program
Global antitrust and fair competition policy
Antitrust Program
Corporate Lobbying Policy
Global Tax Policy
Global Personal Data Protection Policy
Intellectual Property Policy
Social Media Policy
Whistleblowing Policy
Global Information Security Policy
Responsible artificial intelligence policy
Indietro
Indietro
Indietro
Governance
Governance
Contact us
Archive
Governance Structure
Pirelli Corporate Governance Pillars
Board of Directors and corporate bodies
Bylaws and Deed of incorporation
Corporate Governance Reports
Shareholders' Meeting Regulation
Principles and procedure
Shareholders agreements
System of internal control
Enterprise risk Management
Remuneration
Board of Directors
Board Committees
Board of statutory auditors
External Auditors
Supervisory Body
Manager responsible for the preparation of the corporate financial documents
Key manager
Bylaws
Deed of incorporation
Corporate governance report
Ethical code
Group code of conduct
Organisational model “231”
Corporate Policy
Group Policy
Risk Governance
Approach
Risk factors and uncertainty
Indietro
Indietro
Indietro
Investors
Investors
Contact us
Archive
Pirelli in the stock market
Consensus
Shareholder information
Key financials
DEBT AND CREDIT RATING
Outlook
Results and Presentations
Tyre Market Watch
ESG Ratings and Indexes
Financial Calendar
Annual Report
Share performance tool
IPO documentation
Analyst Recommendation
Analyst Estimates
Shareholder Structure
Share Capital
Dividends
Annual General Meeting and Board of Directors
Financial Notices
Financial Highlights
Balance sheet
Cash flow & NFP
Tax overview
2025 financial goals achievement
Investments and Divestments
Capital Structure
Bonds Outstanding
Credit Facilities
Schuldschein
Credit rating
Sustainable finance
2026 Financial Outlook
2026 Market Outlook
Financial reports
Presentations and Webcasts
Press release
Indietro
Indietro
Indietro
Media
Media
Contact us
Archive
Press Releases
F1 Press area
Product Press Area
Pirelli in Telecom
Indietro
Indietro
Indietro
Careers
Careers
Archive
Work with us
Life@Pirelli
Learning and development
Graduates
Contact us
Life @ Pirelli
People care
People
Listening & engagement
International Mobility
Pay Policy And Benefits
Diversity equity & inclusion
Indietro
Indietro
Indietro
Channels
Pirelli Calendar
Fondazione Pirelli
Hangar Bicocca
Pirelli Design
150 Anni
Racing Spot
Mondo
Pirelli Calendar
The Cal™ 2027: India, beyond a single gaze
travel
Lofoten Scenic Route: the road beyond the Arctic Circle
Tyres
The All-Season handbook
WANT MORE ?
Ok
SUBSCRIBE
HERE
Send
SUBSCRIBE
HERE
PRIVACY POLICY – PIRELLI WEBSITES (WITH NO PURCHASE OF PRODUCTS/SERVICES) 1. LEGAL INFORMATION This version of the Privacy Policy (the "Privacy Policy") was last updated and became effective on 25th May 2018. 1.1 The privacy of your Personal Data is of the utmost importance to us. This Privacy Policy covers and is designed to help you understand how we process information that we collect about or from you, how it is used by us, how we share it with others, how we manage the information we hold and how you can contact us. 1.2 Pirelli Tyre S.p.A., with registered offices at Viale Piero e Alberto Pirelli 25, 20126 Milan, Italy, Fiscal Code, VAT and Milan Business Registry Enrolment n. 07211330159 (hereinafter referred to as "Pirelli", "we", "us" or "our", as appropriate) will act as "Controller" of your Personal Data for the purposes detailed in Section 3. 2. COLLECTION OF INFORMATION 2.1 We collect personal data, which under applicable data protection legislation, in particular Regulation EU 679/2016 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (also referred to as the "GDPR"), includes information that can be used to identify you, including - but not limited to - your first and last name, street address, ZIP/postal code, city, country, state, phone number, email (hereinafter as "Personal Data"). Information you provide to us 2.2 You may be requested to provide to us certain Personal Data about you by filling in the forms published on our website(s), and/or when you request us to be contacted, and/or during certain events, for purposes detailed in Section 3. Personal Data you will provide to us may include your name, date and place of birth, e-mail address, and any other information you provide when interact with us or when you contact us. 2.3 We may collect your name, contact information, e-mail address, home address, and any other information you provide when interact with us, make an inquiry through our website, submit a tyre registration form, or when you contact us. Technical information 2.4 When you browse our website, we may collect information which can be used to identify your computer and its browser program or any mobile devices that you use to surf the internet. It is collected by installing small text files called "Cookies" and other, similar information technology techniques (which are comprehensively referred to in this document as "Cookies"). In addition to other functions, when you visit our website again, the Cookies previously stored allow us to recognise your browser. Cookies may store unique identifiers, user preferences, or other information as described in our Cookie Policy. For any other information on the Cookies we use, please refer to our 2.3 When you browse our website(s), we may collect information which can be used to identify your computer and its browser program or any mobile devices that you use to surf the internet. It is collected by installing small text files called "Cookies" and other, similar information technology techniques (which are comprehensively referred to in this document as "Cookies"). In addition to other functions, when you visit our website(s) again, the Cookies previously stored allow us to recognize your browser. Cookies may store unique identifiers, user preferences, or other information as described in our Cookie Policy. 2.5 For any other information on the Cookies we use, please refer to our Cookie Policy. 3. USE OF PERSONAL DATA 3.1 We may use your Personal Data for the following purposes: (i) to allow your registration to our website(s); (ii) to respond to your requests of assistance; (iii) to provide you with the information which you have requested, by way of example about new products and/or services offered by Pirelli; (iv) to allow you to take part in certain activities, events, initiatives or contests. The processing of your Personal Data for purposes of this Section 3. is necessary to fulfil your request and therefore it does not require your prior consent. 3.2 Pirelli may also use your Personal Data for marketing purposes, as described under Section 7 below, and subject to your prior consent. 3.3 The provision of your Personal Data is voluntary but necessary for purposes of this Section 3; in the event you do not provide us your Personal Data, it will be impossible for us to carry out such activities. 4. SHARING OF PERSONAL DATA 4.1 We may share your Personal Data when authorised by law or as follows: (a) Pirelli Group companies : Your Personal Data may be shared with Pirelli & C. S.p.A. and/or any of its subsidiaries incorporated in Europe. (b) Third Parties (Service Providers, Suppliers). Should your Personal Data be provided for purposes of taking part in activities, events, initiatives or contests, your Personal Data may also be processed by service providers and/or insurance companies entrusted by Pirelli. These third parties are subject to confidentiality agreements with us and other legal restrictions that prohibit their use of the information we provide them for any purpose other than to perform the specific related operation, unless you have explicitly agreed or given your prior permission to them for additional uses. The will act, unless otherwise specifies, as Personal Data Processors. (c) As permitted or required by law. In certain cases, we may be required to provide Personal Data in response to a valid court order, subpoena, government investigation, or as otherwise required by law. We also reserve the right to report to law enforcement agencies any activities that we, in good faith, believe to be unlawful or in violation of applicable laws. We may release certain Personal Data when we believe that such release is reasonably necessary to protect the rights, property, and safety of others and ourselves, or to detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security, or technical issues. (d) Business transaction. In the event that we intend to sell or transfer ownership or control of any or all of our business, operations or services to a third party, we may need to disclose your Personal Data to a potential buyer both before and after the purchase. We will do so in accordance and in compliance with the data protection laws applicable to you. In any case, in the event the sale goes through, we will require that the receiving party agree that they will be similarly bound by the provisions of this Privacy Policy and that they will only use and disclose your Personal Data as we are similarly entitled under this Privacy Policy. In the event the sale does not go through, we will require the potential purchaser to not use or disclose your Personal Data in any manner whatsoever and to completely erase the same. 5. YOUR PRIVACY RIGHTS 5.1 You have several privacy rights in accordance with the data protection laws applicable to you. If you reside in the EU, according to GDPR provisions you have the right to access to your data processed by us, correct it, delete it, limit/restrict the processing of your data that can be performed by us, and you have the right to your Personal Data portability and the right to be notified about any possible data breaches of the safety of your Personal Data that may put at risk your rights to confidentiality and personal data protection. In order to exercise your rights you can contact us at privacy.dept@pirelli.com. You can also lodge a complaint with the authority competent in your country, in accordance with applicable data protection laws. We may not be able to accommodate every request related to certain information if we believe this would violate any law or other legal requirement, or other data subjects' rights. 6. RETENTION OF PERSONAL DATA 6.1 We will retain your Personal Data for: (i) as long as your account is active (if applicable); (ii) for a period of 1 (one) year from our last contact, in case you have requested information and/or assistance only; (iii) for the period mandatorily requested by the European applicable laws with respect to Personal Data collected for purposes of specific activities, events, initiatives or contests; (iv) for marketing purposes, for a period of 2 (two) years from the end of last communication from Pirelli, unless otherwise requested by you. We will also retain your Personal Data as necessary to comply with our legal obligations, resolve disputes, and enforce our rights (i.e.: defensive purposes). We will delete your Personal Data upon your request, if permitted, in accordance with the data protection laws applicable to you. 7. COMMERCIAL ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS 7.1 Pirelli and Pirelli group companies incorporated in Europe will be entitled to send you any promotional emails (including newsletters) and other commercial electronic communications on the basis of the provision of your specific consent to marketing activities. You can always limit the communications that Pirelli sends to you. To refuse future commercial emails, simply click the link labelled "unsubscribe" at the bottom of any email Pirelli sends you. 8. WHERE WE STORE YOUR PERSONAL DATA 8.1 Pirelli will store your Personal Data on its IT systems based in the European Union. 9. PRIVACY POLICIES OF THIRD PARTIES 9.1 This Privacy Policy only addresses the use and disclosure of information by Pirelli. We are not responsible for the privacy policies of other websites or application and encourage you to read all applicable terms, conditions and privacy policies provided by all third parties prior to providing them with your information. 10. LIMITATIONS TO MINORS' PERSONAL DATA 10.1 If you are a minor, please do not provide us any Personal Data about yourself without the provision of adequate consent by the holder of parental responsibility over you. If we learn that we have collected Personal Data from a minor, without the holder of parental responsibility's consent, we will promptly delete that information. If you believe we have collected Personal Data from a minor, please contact us at privacy.dept@pirelli.com. 11. SECURITY OF PERSONAL DATA 11.1 We have security protocols in place to protect your Personal Data from unauthorised access, improper use or disclosure, unauthorised modification, and unlawful destruction and accidental loss. We only allow access to our databases when necessary, and then under strict guidelines as to what use may be made of such data. 11.2 It is your responsibility to protect the security of your login information, and we recommend that you use a unique password for our website that is different from the password you may use on any other site. 12. CHANGE OF PRIVACY POLICY 12.1 Privacy laws and practice are constantly developing. Our policies and procedures are therefore under continual review. Our Privacy Policy may change from time to time but we will not reduce your rights under this Privacy Policy without your explicit consent. The date the Privacy Policy was last revised is identified at the top of the page. 13. HOW TO CONTACT US 13.1 If you have questions or concerns regarding this Privacy Policy, or if you wish to review, edit your Personal Data or request that we delete Personal Data stored in the databases we actively use, please contact: privacy.dept@pirelli.com.
By ticking this box I hereby authorise the processing of my Personal Data by email for the purpose of direct marketing in accordance with the Privacy Policy*
Thanks for your subscription!
TOP STORIES
How tyre pressure changes with heat
Tyres
Goodwood 2026: the car world runs on P Zero
Events
How is a summer tyre tested?
Tyres
Porsche Taycan: new record with P Zero Trofeo RS
Supercars
Tyre maintenance: small checks, big safety
Tips
Atlantic Ocean Road: a bridge between sea and sky
travel
HIGHLIGHTS FROM PIRELLI
P Zero Trofeo RS: “the fastest in the world”
Tyres
Journeying on the Grossglockner High Alpine Road
travel
Cycling safely: the importance of tyre pressure
Tips
Get ready for a two-wheeled adventure
Tyres
Coastal roads: five trips to enjoy on a motorcycle
Motorcycles
Kattegat Cycle Route: between Denmark and the sea
travel
The Racing Spot
View All News
Tyre compounds selected for Zandvoort, Monza and Madrid
Pirelli today informed the teams of the tyre compound selections for the next three rounds of the
Norris wins in Hungary with a late charge on Softs
Lando Norris won the Hungarian Grand Prix. The British driver finished ahead of Max Verstappen and
Norris on pole in Hungary, tyre sets will shape tomorrow's strategies
Lando Norris secured pole position for the Hungarian Grand Prix. The reigning World Champion set
NEWS
View All
16, August, 2026
Pirelli double podium at the Barum Rally. Suninen second, Mabellini claims third place on the Power Stage
13, August, 2026
P Zero hard for the Barum Rally challenge. Pirelli tyres for the top two in the standings, Suninen and Mabellini
11, August, 2026
PIRELLI SIGNS LUNA ROSSA'S “TYRES”
NEXT EVENTS
View All
29/07/2026
1H 2026 Financial Results
05/11/2026
9M 2026 Financial Results
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR TYRES?
Moto
Car
Bike