Our Research Changes Lives
At UMD, brilliant scholars and scientists come together to spark new ideas, pursue important discoveries, drive innovation and tackle humanity’s grand challenges—helping people in our communities and around the globe.
Latest News
UMD grad discovers draft of ‘Letter From Birmingham Jail’
By The Numbers
By any measure, UMD stands among the preeminent universities in the country. We routinely appear at the top of rankings from U.S. News & World Report, Forbes, The Princeton Review and others. Our own counts—spanning facilities to faculty to Fulbright winners—make it even clearer: Maryland offers more.
#10
among public universities
Forbes’ America’s Top Colleges
69
colleges, schools and programs ranked in the top 25 nationwide
2025 U.S. News & World Report
#7
among U.S. universities for undergraduate entrepreneurship
The Princeton Review/Entrepreneurship magazine
Admissions
Be a Terp!
Work and study among visionaries and innovators. Create the next world-changing technology or company. Tackle society’s grand challenges. Learn from top scholars and researchers. Join a community of inspiring students and faculty, all committed to doing good and shaking up the status quo.
Interested in becoming a University of Maryland student? This is where to start.
The future is here
The Future is Here.
Together, we lead Fearlessly Forward
UMD brings together top scientists and scholars near the nation’s capital to discover and innovate—advancing bold solutions to grand challenges like disease, energy technology and national security.
A Bold Research Enterprise
Arts for All unites arts with tech, science and more to spark creativity, dialogue, and action. It builds a culture of innovation, making UMD a leader in arts and tech to tackle big challenges through collaboration.
Artists & Creators
UMD embraces different voices, ideas, identities and experiences across our campus.
Diverse Perspectives & Backgrounds
UMD is changing teaching and learning to prepare tomorrow's leaders to adapt to the future of work.
Unmatched Learning Experiences
Academics
With over 100 undergraduate majors across 12 schools and colleges, we have at least one to match your interests, or can help you design your own. UMD also has one of the nation’s biggest and most robust graduate enterprises, housing more than 230 master’s, doctoral and certificate programs. Beyond innovative and engaging courses, students have infinite opportunities to learn beyond the classroom.
At UMD, the arts, the humanities and the sciences intersect to address vital societal issues and shed new light on the human experience.
UMD has one of the nation’s most successful athletics programs: Terps have racked up 47 national championships overall and 51 conference titles since joining the Big Ten in 2014. Fear the Turtle!