We’re working to connect more than 2 billion people worldwide who are still offline, and make the Internet safer and more trustworthy.
2025 Annual Report
2025 Annual Report
In 2025, we worked in 150 countries and territories, supporting community-centered connectivity initiatives, helping safeguard the multistakeholder model of Internet governance, scaling our philanthropic impact through new funding partnerships, and so much more.
The report outlines how our global community rose to the challenge of our ambitious five-year strategy to expand affordable, reliable access and ensure that people everywhere are safe and secure online.
Community-Centered Connectivity Initiatives Earn Viddy Awards Recognition
Our global community works tirelessly to expand connectivity, educate users, and build the Internet we want—an Internet for everyone. 
We are proud to share that four videos highlighting community initiatives have won Viddy Awards this year.
We are proud to share that four videos highlighting community initiatives have won Viddy Awards this year.
From Email to Case Study: What We Learned About Connecting Refugee Communities in Just One Year
In Uganda’s Rhino Camp Refugee Settlement, we helped train refugees and community members to use the Internet and build their own networks. 
Now, two fully operational, community-owned digital hubs serve over 4,500 people.
Now, two fully operational, community-owned digital hubs serve over 4,500 people.
Anatomy of a Scam
Online scams are at an all-time high, and digital tools have enabled them to become more sophisticated, more convincing, and more widespread. 
Luckily, with the right information, you can learn how to identify online scams and keep yourself safe. Let’s take a look at some common warning signs.
Luckily, with the right information, you can learn how to identify online scams and keep yourself safe. Let’s take a look at some common warning signs.
In partnership with our global community, we are building and advocating for an Internet for everyone.
The Internet Society has consistently demonstrated the transformative power of community, inspiring me through its efforts to build vibrant, empowered networks of individuals. Their work not only energizes community members but positions them as the driving force behind meaningful change.”
Image copyright: 
© Internet Society, © Internet Society Haiti Chapter, courtesy of Lily Edinam Botsyoe, © Internet Society
The copyright of the items displayed in the blog feed can be found on their respective pages.