The University of Kentucky has a broad range of resources centered on a single campus in the heart of the Bluegrass. Our wide array of programs allows us to excel in multidisciplinary studies and fosters an environment of cooperative engagement across all colleges, programs, and research endeavors. Because of the lives we touch and teach, we remain anchored in our mission to Kentucky– to educate, innovate, heal, and serve. To be sure, our complex, multi-faceted mission looks different today in many ways than it did in 1865. However, our sense of responsibility to our communities on campus and across the region is resolute. The mission has evolved and grown. The vision of service to our Commonwealth and the world beyond remains the same. They remain our compass – the soul of the University of Kentucky.
UK has a strong faculty core that supports more than 200 academic programs spread across 16 degree-granting colleges, the Lewis Honors College, Graduate School, and the UK Library system. In the last several years, UK has received nearly 100 national rankings for excellence in academics, research, health care, and economic development. U.S. News and World Report ranks several of UK’s graduate programs among the nation’s best: the Martin School of Public Policy and Administration is ranked fourth in the category of public finance and budgeting, and the College of Pharmacy is ranked sixth. The University of Kentucky earned 28 Top 10 rankings and 50 Top 25 rankings over the last several years.
With more than 200 academic programs spread across 16 colleges and professional schools, more than 450 student organizations and clubs excited for new members or the 22 varsity sports programs to follow throughout the year, there is something for everyone at the University of Kentucky. Visit our admissions website for answers, insights, and stories that hopefully make your college decision a little easier. Our mission is to support the success of colleges and students in their commitment to academic excellence through outstanding service. Our recruitment team is dedicated to assisting you during the college selection process.
The University of Kentucky Athletics Department is a 22-sport program dedicated to competing at the highest level nationally and in the Southeastern Conference, while enriching the lives of its nearly 500 student-athletes – both during and after their time at UK – and honoring the deep connections it shares with its fans, the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the university it represents. With a rich tradition that dates back to 1881, UK Athletics seeks to live out its core values of character, integrity, knowledge, stewardship and competiveness every day. Those core values serve as the foundation for the pursuit of the current goals set forth in Elite 1-3-5: for every UK team to win a conference or national championship by 2022, to continue an ongoing streak of 12 straight semesters with a cumulative grade-point average of 3.0 and to finish in the top five of the national all-sports standings by 2022.
The University of Kentucky puts students first. One of the most compelling ways we manifest that commitment is how we support students as we prepare them to lead lives of meaning and purpose. On virtually every dimension of that commitment, we are doing more and being more for our students during their curricular and co-curricular journeys. These efforts are guided by the university’s strategic priorities to ensure access to an affordable higher education and to further enhance and support student success. The student body represents more than 100 countries, every state in the nation and all 120 Kentucky counties. The university continues to attract the best and brightest from the Commonwealth and beyond.
The University of Kentucky empowers innovative research — in all forms practiced across our varied disciplines and more than 75 centers and institutes — to advance Kentucky. UK faculty, staff and student researchers create, discover and apply new knowledge, and explore the most complex problems facing our state, the nation and the world. Our collaborative, cross-disciplinary research environment provides a rich training ground for the next generation of thinkers, creators and leaders. Research and development at UK directly impacts the Kentucky economy. The $527.7 million UK spent on R&D in FY24 generated more than $937 million in economic activity across Kentucky. As a result, more than 4,700 jobs were supported throughout the Commonwealth.
Established in 1957, the medical center at UK is one of the nation’s finest academic medical centers and includes the University’s clinical enterprise, UK HealthCare. The 724 bed UK Albert B. Chandler Hospital and Kentucky Children’s Hospital, along with 221 beds at UK Good Samaritan Hospital, are supported by a growing faculty and staff providing the most advanced subspecialty care for the most critically injured and ill patients throughout the Commonwealth and beyond. The number of patients served by the medical enterprise has increased from roughly 19,000 discharges in 2003 to more than 38,000 discharges in 2017. UK Chandler Hospital includes the only Level 1 Trauma Center for both adult and pediatric patients in Central and Eastern Kentucky.
Approved investment in infrastructure across campus, including a $256 million multidisciplinary research building and the continued expansion of a $1 billion health care facility started in 2004.
1 of 8
UK is one of only eight institutions in the country with the full complement of liberal arts, engineering, professional, agricultural and medical colleges and disciplines on one contiguous campus.