Welcome to Heidelberg University
Nobel Prize Winners Heidelberg Nobel Prize Winners
Nobel Prize WinnersLearn more
International Ruperto Carola international
InternationalLearn more
Donations & Endowments Your Commitment To Heidelberg University
Donations & EndowmentsLearn more
Against Exclusion and Discrimination
University
Founded in 1386, Ruperto Carola is the oldest university in today's Germany and one of Europe’s leading research institutions. Its success across all funding rounds of the Excellence Competition and international rankings underscore its leadership role and excellent reputation in the academic, scientific and research landscape.
Research
Heidelberg University defines itself as an internationally networked research university dedicated to research-oriented teaching. It believes it has a duty to help address the issues facing humanity by crossing the divide between disciplines.
Study
Courses of study at Heidelberg University are informed by its strong research focus and are designed to accustom students to independent research practices early on. With over 160 fields of study, it offers the broad spectrum of subjects representative of a comprehensive university as well as abundant opportunities to acquire a singular and internationally competitive qualification profile.
Transfer
The exchange between basic research and technological innovation as well as the targeted transfer of knowledge and insights into society are the focus of the transfer activities.
Excellence Strategy
Heidelberg University has been successful in all funding lines in previous rounds of the Excellence Competition and has been funded as a University of Excellence since 2007. In March 2026, it was once again awarded the title of University of Excellence. Funding will begin on 1 January 2027. Based on its self-assessment report entitled “SEMPER APERTUS – Heidelberg: The Comprehensive Research University”, Heidelberg University will bolster its research strength in the upcoming funding period by connecting tried-and-tested instruments and measures with new ones. The prerequisite for applying for funding in the Excellence Universities funding line was two successful Clusters of Excellence, or three in the case of university consortia. With the approval of three cluster applications announced in May 2025, Heidelberg University has laid this foundation.