Find a forecast
Your recent places
- Your recently searched for places will appear here.
- 
To see your recently searched for places, accept cookies by updating your preferences
-  
-  
-  
- Your next recent place will appear here.
UK weather
Daily video forecast
United Kingdom weather map
View the weather with our interactive map
UK 5 day weather forecast
Headline:
Becoming increasingly changeable with showers this week.
This Evening and Tonight:
Rain spreads southeastwards overnight, reaching most areas before easing in places. Some heavy bursts are possible, while the far northeast stays wet for longer. Cloudy conditions continue with scattered drizzly showers, becoming breezy in the north and west. Mild throughout.
Tuesday:
A wet start across many northern and central areas of the country, with rain moving erratically southwards during the day. Turning brighter but fresher from the north.
Outlook for Wednesday to Friday:
Wednesday will be dry in the south, while elsewhere there will be a mix of sunshine and showers. Showers becoming widespread and heavy from Thursday, with an risk of thunder.
Updated:
UK long range weather forecast
This period is likely to start largely dry and settled across the UK, as a ridge of high pressure sets in. A few showers are likely in the far north and possibly the far southeast though. Conditions look like turning increasingly unsettled through next week, as low pressure gradually becomes dominant, squeezing the ridge off to the northeast and southwest. Most places are likely to see some rain or showers, which may be heavy with a risk of thunder at times. It may become breezy if not windy at times too. Temperatures are likely to be near or a little below normal overall, with some chilly nights at first, but brief warm, humid spells are possible at times, especially in the south.
Updated:
As we move into the start of meteorological autumn, signals for the prevailing weather patterns affecting the UK are weak, thus something close to the climatological norm is most likely. This means a broad northwest-southeast split in conditions, with higher pressure becoming centred close to the south of the UK and lower pressure towards the north and northwest. The north and northwest will probably see the lion's share of the rain and any strong winds, whilst the south and southeast will probably see the driest and sunniest weather. Temperatures are likely to be above average overall. There is a chance that late season hot spells or heatwaves develop, especially in the south.
Updated: