Harvard University
Explore campus
Join our student tour guides and learn the ins and outs of the Harvard campus.
Museums
Harvard’s museums showcase renowned collections, conduct cutting-edge research, and offer events and experiences for everyone.
Libraries
Harvard has the oldest library system in the U.S. and the world’s largest academic library, housing 20 million physical and digital items.
Athletics
Since the nation’s first college athletic event—an 1852 crew race against Yale—athletics have been a unifying force across the Harvard community.
Harvard at a glance
For nearly four centuries, people have come to Harvard in the pursuit of truth, knowledge, and the betterment of society.
Meet the faculty
I-Min Lee
Research by epidemiologist I-Min Lee helped inform the 2008 and 2018 federal physical activity guidelines.
Patrick Slade
Patrick Slade’s research at SEAS combines wearable robotics, biomechanics, sensing, and artificial intelligence to help people move more easily and safely in everyday life.
Bianca Baldridge
In her new book, HGSE’s Bianca Baldridge examines the critical work of Black youth workers.
Laura Jakli
HBS’s Laura Jakli is interested in information communication technologies—the movement toward getting our news and information online and how it’s shaped our behavior.
Jill Lepore
Historian Jill Lepore was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for her book “We the People: A History of the U.S. Constitution.”
Nestor Davidson
HGSD’s Nestor Davidson has spent much of his career studying and teaching urban law—the regulations, policies, and agreements that underpin cities.
Follow along
Join the Harvard community! Keep up with the people, places, events, news, and research happening at Harvard.
Bringing dental care and education to the community
Bringing dental care and education to the community
Student club celebrates satellite launch
Medical and dental students get their white coats
Harvard Law student wins on "Jeopardy!"
A semester of building at the Harvard i-lab
Student life
Explore student groups, campus resources, and organizations at our Schools and across Harvard.
You may also like