latest build updated 1/6/23
[model name] [grade name]
MSRP*
$xx,xxx
Est. MPG* / MPGe*
xx/xx
                      X of X
                     
                    - 
                       
- 
                       
- 
                       2027HighlanderTake on every day with sleek style, modern tech and three rows, now—all-electric.
           Prototypes shown with options.
          
         
                   FEATURED STORIES
                  
                  
                   Schedule Toyota Service
                  
                  
                   Sign-in and schedule a service appointment online at one of our dealers.
                  
                  
                 
                   Freshen up this fall
                  
                  
                   Explore hundreds of Toyota Genuine Parts and Accessories, and Lifestyle Products.
                  
                  
                 
                   An Easier Way to Buy Your Next Toyota
                  
                  
                   SmartPath helps you find your Toyota, customize terms and finalize your purchase—all online.
                  
                  
                 
                   OFFERS & SERVICES
                  
                  
                   Toyota Rewards Visa Signature®
                  
                  
                   Earn more with Toyota Rewards Visa Signature® Credit Card
                  
                  
                 
                   VEHICLES & TECHNOLOGY
                  
                  
                   Connected Services
                  
                  
                   Get help with everything from Remote Start  to Roadside Safety  to Service —all from your smartphone. 
                  
                  
                 
                   Safety Recall Information
                  
                  
                   Get information on open safety recalls and service campaigns.
                  
                  
                 
                   Toyota Cares
                  
                  
                   Every new Toyota comes with ToyotaCare,  a maintenance plan that covers initial normal factory scheduled service and 24-hour Roadside Assistance.
                  
                  
                 
                   Manage Vehicle Payments
                  
                  
                   Sign in and link your Toyota Financial Services account to access details and make payments.
                  
                  
                 
                   College Rebate
                  
                  
                   Getting a degree is hard work. We’re here to help you with a break, with our College Rebate and Finance Program.
                  
                  
                 
                   Military Rebate
                  
                  
                   We truly appreciate all that you do in your life of service, and we’d like to share a small token of our gratitude.