Setting Up Students for Success
Consistently rated among the nation’s leading institutions of higher education, USC is known for academic excellence, pioneering research opportunities, and a diverse and inclusive student experience and campus environment that attracts students from across the U.S. and worldwide.
(Photo/iStock)
Top Headlines
USC offers unique opportunities for students to do hands-on, lifesaving research alongside faculty mentors.
The head of USC Stem Cell Center, Chuck Murry, and his team will test a stem cell-based therapy designed to regenerate damaged tissue after a heart attack.
The new home of USC football doubles the size of the program’s space on campus, building on a championship legacy with an eye toward future success.
USC researchers are creating immersive, high-tech simulations of ocean waves to better understand the benefits of surfing, the devastation of tsunamis and the dynamics of the ocean itself.
Ready for the Future
Our graduates leave USC prepared to make their mark on a changing world. Their classroom studies, lab work and real-world experiences combine to make them uniquely ready to contribute in concrete ways.
A Great Start
USC gives students an unmatched educational experience — and two-thirds of our undergraduates receive some sort of financial aid. What’s more, incoming first-year students from U.S. families with an annual income of $80,000 or less with typical assets can attend USC tuition free.
How old are you really? Study explains what makes ‘epigenetic clocks’ tick, debuts new prediction tools
USC-led research reveals what aspects of cellular function are measured by popular biological age assessments.
For the tiniest patients, new USC tech brings clearer MRI images
STORY and VIDEO: USC researchers have developed custom, 3D-printed MRI sensors that take minutes to make at a fraction of the cost and give doctors clearer views of small organs in infants and children.
How Keck Medicine of USC restored one patient’s trust in healthcare
Sheryl Heyser finally found the care she needed for AFib — and became the one-millionth patient to visit Keck Medicine in the last 12 months.
USC establishes NIH-funded center to transform research on sex differences in aging
The USC Leonard Davis School of Gerontology has received $7.5 million to establish GeroSCORE, which will advance research on sex differences in aging while serving as a national hub for discovery, collaboration and training.
Evolutionary history may help explain why some people develop more severe COVID-19 than others
A USC Dornsife-led study shows how combining evolutionary genetics with infectious disease research can reveal clues about why one disease can affect different people in different ways.
AI-enabled measurements of ‘local brain aging’ offer detailed insights on dementia and more
A USC study shows how patterns of neurodegeneration in specific brain regions relate to changes in cognitive function.
Bovard Scholars explore healthcare careers through hands-on learning at USC Verdugo Hills Hospital
The immersive Healthcare Day of Discovery introduces high school students to career opportunities within the field.
Large national study finds differences in multiple sclerosis death rates by age, race and geography
The USC-led analysis also found that co-occurring conditions, including high blood pressure and cardiac arrest, were linked to increased mortality among people with MS.
Spotlight: USC Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism
Powered by the creative energy of Los Angeles, state-of-the-art facilities, a faculty of leading scholars and practitioners, and a global network of industry partners, the USC Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism connects intellectual rigor and professional practice in ways few schools can. Students gain the knowledge, experiences and connections to shape the future of communication, journalism and public relations.
USC United Against Alzheimer’s
Learn how USC researchers and clinicians are making groundbreaking strides in the treatment, prevention and care of the debilitating disease.
Collaborating in Research and Care
This series showcases how USC researchers and clinicians are on the cusp of a revolution in Alzheimer’s prevention, making groundbreaking strides in the treatment, prevention and care of Alzheimer’s. In the near future, their discoveries promise to make the devastating disease a thing of the past.
Can we prevent Alzheimer’s disease within a decade?
USC researchers are on the cusp of a revolution in Alzheimer’s prevention. In the near future, their discoveries promise to make the devastating disease a thing of the past.
To reduce Alzheimer’s risk, focus on overall health
Researchers across USC are studying how lifestyle and environment influence dementia risk and resilience. They’re finding that what’s good for the body is also good for the brain.
How AI and advanced computing are accelerating Alzheimer’s research
Cutting-edge technologies developed by USC researchers are changing not just the pace of Alzheimer’s disease discoveries but also the ways scientists make those discoveries.
Caring Connections
Keck School of Medicine of USC practitioners connect Alzheimer’s patients and their caregivers to leading-edge research — and, just as importantly, to compassionate care.