Health & Medicine
CAR T cell therapy leads to 10-year remissions in B-cell lymphoma patients
A long-term follow-up from one of the earliest CAR T cell therapy clinical trials shows potential cures in more than one-third of patients treated at Penn Medicine.
Upcoming Events
New Student Orientation: Penn Libraries Showcase
During New Student Orientation, participants will have a chance to explore the Penn Libraries’ research materials, high-tech equipment, study spaces, and services that help students succeed. Open to Penn students and their families. Light refreshments will be served.
New Student Orientation 2026
New Student Orientation between Aug. 19-24 offers incoming undergraduate students a comprehensive introduction to academic and campus life at Penn. Throughout the week, students can enjoy enrichment programs designed to support their growth, engagement, and leadership development throughout their undergraduate journey. Free and open to Penn students.
Ends August 24, 2026
Penn Libraries: From Exhibition to Embedded
This presentation will chart the pathway from the February 2025 National Library of Medicine’s Yellow Fever Panel Exhibit and Discussion to an evolving partnership in support of Department of History and Sociology of Science associate professor Rana Hogarth’s undergraduate interdisciplinary scholars within Holman Biotech Commons and Penn Libraries. The session will explore how this collaboration has flourished, and how experiences with students surfaced critical questions about AI and historical research. Free and open to the public. Register to attend either virtually or in person.
Supporting our Community
Building Community, Combatting Antisemitism, Countering Hate, and Supporting Every Member of the Penn Community
Title IX Compliance in Athletics
Penn's Title IX Resolution with the U.S. Department of Education Office for Civil Rights
Penn Priorities
A look at a few of our big picture priorities that improve Penn as we create knowledge to benefit the world.
Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Penn
The University of Pennsylvania seeks talented students, faculty, and staff with a wide variety of backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives. The University of Pennsylvania does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, religion, creed, national origin (including shared ancestry or ethnic characteristics), citizenship status, age, disability, veteran status or any other class protected under applicable federal, state, or local law in the administration of its admissions, financial aid, educational or athletic programs, or other University-administered programs or in its employment practices. Questions or complaints regarding this policy should be directed to the executive director of the Office of Equal Opportunity Programs; Franklin Building, 3451 Walnut Street, Suite 421, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6106; or (215) 898-6993.