Activity
We constantly build and release new, bleeding edge versions of Haiku for testing purposes. You can download and install these versions to check out the latest features and bug fixes.
Be aware that nightly images may be unstable. Additionally, some packages included with official releases need to be installed separately.
If you're OK with this, you can find further instructions at our Nightly image page.
Hello! The GSoC’s midterm (at least for me) has just passed, so I thought of making a recap post about the improvements I’ve made so far. I’ll try to keep the post brief to make it easier for readers (foreshadowing: I realized that’s impossible :P). I’ve already posted an introduction about me and the project. You can read it here if you haven’t already.
Host-Controller Interface (HCI) Commands and Events
The Host-Controller Interface (HCI) is the specification for how the operating system (the host, in our case, is Haiku) communicates with the Bluetooth controller. The Bluetooth controller is basically the firmware on the Bluetooth chip. So, it’s vital to implement at least most of the mandatory HCI commands and events from the Bluetooth specification for Bluetooth to function properly. HCI commands and events were mostly outdated, dating back to version 2.0 or 2.1, so updating them was the first step to get the Bluetooth stack back to life.
Introduction
Hello again! It has been a fun journey since the beginning of GSoC. My project focuses on modernizing Haiku’s Bluetooth stack, specifically adding support for the Hands-Free Profile (HFP). HFP is a profile that allows operating systems to interact with Bluetooth audio devices, such as headsets, for two-way voice calls and audio streaming. Today, I’ll be sharing a progress report on the work I have completed till now, and will outline my plans for the remainder of the project.
This report covers hrev59754 through hrev59820.
Hello Everyone! I have officially reached the midterm mark of my GSoC project, revamping the devices application. Over the past few weeks, I have made a couple of changes extracting more hardware information and presenting it cleanly to the user.
Here is a look at what has been accomplished so far.
Extracting the device path and driver used
The first goal of my GSoC project was to determine which driver is loaded for a device, and display the device path as well if existent. To do this, I worked with the device_manager to get the driver path. I managed to get a hold of this in the app with a dm_wrapper call, and then display it in DevicesView by creating the devices with that new attribute. For the device path, I also used the device_manager to add the published path as an attribute, that would get fetched in DevicesView as well.
This report covers hrev59672 through hrev59753.
This report covers hrev59570 through hrev59671.
GSoC selection happened at the end of last month; you can read the news post announcing this year’s selectees. Thanks to everyone who applied!
Introduction
Hello! My name is Leo Rouleau, a first-year software engineering student at Polytechnique Montréal. I chose to apply for Haiku because of my interest in lower-level programming and operating systems. Having worked on projects involving microcontrollers and custom interpreters in C, C++, and Java, I’ve found systems-level development to be the most engaging challenge.
Project Overview
Haiku’s current Devices application provides a basic list of connected hardware, but it lacks the features necessary to function as a true management utility. This project aims to transform Devices into a full-fledged hardware manager, allowing users to view detailed technical specifications and perform administrative tasks directly from the GUI.
Hello! I’m Mohammed R. Attia, a 2nd-year Computer Science Student. I’ve been accepted into Google Summer of Code (GSoC) 2026 with Haiku, with my proposal titled “Modernizing Haiku’s Bluetooth Stack: HCI Completion and HID Profile Implementation.”
About Me
I consider myself a competitive programmer and a software engineer. I haven’t decided on a specific specialization in software engineering just yet; rather, I’m interested in systems development and low-level programming. You can check my GitHub for more information about my latest projects. I go by the handle mohammedrattia in many places on the internet, so feel free to reach out :).
Introduction
Hello! I am Vighnesh Sawant, a first year Computer Science undergrad at the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IITM).
I have contributed to the bluetooth stack before GSoC a little, enabling pairing with most bluetooth devices (before you could only really pair with Bluetooth 1.0 devices)
although the implementation is not quite polished yet. Little trivia, my first patch to Haiku ended up breaking DNS resolution on nightly (sorry waddlesplash and Jerome!).
I’ll be working on implementing support for the HFP profile in Haiku’s bluetooth stack, which enables audio streaming and
hands free voice calls while also laying the groundwork for further improvements of the bluetooth stack.
I’ll be mentored by waddlesplash and scottmc.