Real fiber for $24.95.* Not ‘fiber-powered’ like the other guys. Call 866-618-0264.
EarthLink Fiber
Whether it’s our lightning-fast internet, premium streaming services, robust business packages, or top-tier security solutions, we’re committed to keeping you connected.
At EarthLink, we’re more than just your provider – we’re your internet partner you trust. Even better, we’re more widely available than any other ISP in the continental U.S.
Bypass the frustrations and gimmicks from the usual suspects like Xfinity, Cox, Spectrum, Bright House, Optimum, and the rest. No more chasing flashy offers and being left on hold forever.
If EarthLink isn’t available in your area, we can find you the right connections with providers we trust like: AT&T, Verizon, T-Mobile, Frontier, CenturyLink, and DirecTV.
Just great internet for everyone
Powered by the nation’s largest Fiber and 5G network
No Data Caps. No Throttling. Freedom
Get the best rates and peace of mind
When you’re shopping for new internet, it can be a little overwhelming finding the right fit for you. EarthLink has several high-speed internet plans so you can choose the best option that fits your needs for speed, affordability and reliability.
Fastest speeds. No data caps. Maximum reliability.
Faster speeds. Widely available. Easy installation.
Dependable choice. Rural internet. Right price.
Secure connection. Tech support. Reliable service.
We use the internet for everything: work, fun, school, keeping in touch with our families, and more. And that means you need high-speed internet to stay connected. We offer a variety of internet services, from fiber internet to satellite internet to wireless 5G home internet — all so you can find your right connection.
EarthLink knows the internet. It’s what we were founded on more than 25 years ago. With EarthLink internet, you can trust us to deliver reliable high speeds and best-in-class customer service.
*Offer ends 9/30/2026. Restrictions apply. New customer offer for first 3 months only; then full-price plan. Actual speeds may vary depending on the distance, line-quality, phone service provider, and number of devices used concurrently. Exclusions, taxes, fees, or modem service charges may apply. Not available in all areas. Limited-time offer; subject to change.
1 Actual speeds may vary depending on the distance, line-quality, phone service provider, and number of devices used concurrently.
2 Same-Day Shipping: Offered if placed before 3:00 p.m. ET
3 *Comparison of EarthLink Fiber starting, mid and high-speed tiers to comparable speed tiers of Xfinity, Spectrum, and Cox. Comparison of internet 2000 and internet 5000 wired upload speed to cable 1 Gig and 1.2 Gig service w/ upload speed of 35 Mbps. For more info go to earthlink.net/blog/how-much-internet-speed-do-i-need.