La página que intenta visitar sólo está disponible en inglés. ¡Disculpa!
The page you are about to visit is currently only available in English. Sorry!
Conservation action through birds
      Birds are telling us—in their behavior, in their dwindling numbers, in their silence—that we must take action now, and that we must take action where birds need us most, from the Arctic to Chile and everywhere in between.
It’s time to rise to the occasion.
We follow the science
                Our science shows where birds go and what they need when they get there. We're prepared to heed that call.
              
                                                
                
                We pair advocacy and diplomacy to influence decision makers
                Audubon pairs diplomacy with advocacy to achieve conservation outcomes.
              
                                                
                
                We inspire an expansive Audubon flock
                Our chapters and centers are hubs that connect individuals and communities to Audubon and to action. 
              
                                                
                
                And, of course, we have birds
                Birds delight and connect people across cultural, generational, and geographic boundaries. They inspire us to be better. And for 120 years, birds have been the heart and soul of Audubon. 
              
                                                  Migratory birds face threats throughout their lives, and these threats are accelerating. We work in the places where birds, and people, need it most. Read more about who we are and the work that we do.
Generous people like you power our work to protect birds and the places they need.
Explore our catalogue of over 800 North American Birds
    
      Discover Audubon Magazine 
          For 125 years, Audubon has been a cornerstone of environmental journalism. Through quarterly print issues and digital editorial, the award-winning publication delivers essential news, advice, and reporting on birds and bird conservation, pairing compelling writing with vivid photography.
Ospreys in the Chesapeake Bay Are Starving to Death at Disastrous Rates. What Will It Take to Save Them?
            After a spectacular comeback from DDT, the Osprey population has plummeted within the watershed and is showing signs of trouble elsewhere. The birds’ fate may once more rest on collective action.